


I'll send you some reference documents before we meet, could you please have a look at them and then we can definitely connect to discuss things in detail
MVP Project Overview - https://www.loom.com/share/cf0ec7478adb4f7497ec84df8523a6e0?sid=025aeb1f-ea32-4a6d-a1fa-ceac5193a6b4
Reference Video from - https://horizon3.ai/nodezero/external-pentesting/
MVP Discovery - https://hypertrends.atlassian.net/wiki/x/AQCMmw
MVP Requirements - https://hypertrends.atlassian.net/wiki/x/AgCLmw
ReconX Package - https://hypertrends.atlassian.net/wiki/x/AQCxn
VulnX Package
https://www.loom.com/share/7a72e009ad004239ba62313df1375195
https://www.loom.com/share/b8bc2ab65e974f85aa3eb668eeac7118
You can start taking an overview from this and i can then connect with you and explain the project in detail (edited) 


MVP Project overview- 
16:12
Re-try. Oh yeah. Re-started.
16:22
Re-do, or attack tool, re-started again. Let's just say Attack schedule, attack, removed updated, attack tools identified, tools updated, attack tools added, attack started, external container created to start the attacks.
16:51
Umm, okay. So. So we will say one of the things that we will do behind the scenes is um, attack, configuration added.
17:06
Good. New, and I'm gonna put this in different colors, maybe, because these are developer tasks, so.
17:18
So, uhh, Actually, yeah, so.
17:57
What do I mean? By a configuration added. So, every attack will have a default configuration. They should also be able to update that.
18:05
We should be able to create a plugin directory for all the attacks and we should be able to list the attacks in there.
18:11
And we should be able to update that. We should be able to. So, add attack added to directory. Attack removed from directory.
18:26
Okay. Then you have vulnerability scans.
18:46
started. . . . this is already in-zap. We already have this. So, we are going to Yup.
19:06
Okay. Oh, this is good.
19:33
So, just- In 20 minutes, I think we've done a fantastic job. You know, this, I feel like, okay, we've figured out the attacks, we've figured out asset management.
19:44
We now need to talk about the outcomes. So, umm, let's go ahead and- add another frame. time. Okay, so outcomes, uhm, attack, outputs, consolidated.
20:32
We need to figure out how to do this. There is a big discovery around that. Attack, outputs, uh, document. And then, CXRA score, generated.
20:49
Outcomes mapped. I hope to. Controls. There's gotta be more in here. I'm just kinda trying to figure out what else do we need.
21:07
So, okay. So then. and I think this might be a smaller project than Benchmark.
21:23
So, um, okay. Let's- Let's start looking at this. And then what we will do is, I would like us to now start looking at this and start building any additional- things that we have, uhm, to look at.
21:41
So I'm just gonna say, um, zap, vulnerability scanning complete, um, attack tools listing.
21:55
Thank you for watching. And we're just gonna start listing all the tools that we have because, um, okay. So Cali Linux.
22:02
Relax. Or Arch Linux containers. Or pen testing. We will say PDF. ADF. And testers. Framework automation. And we're gonna use.
22:24
. Oh, come on. I'm, Okay, then we're gonna use, These are for, uhm, It's just gonna take this.
23:19
Mm. Mm. Mm. . Mm.
23:46
Okay, so I think that's- that's all I have for now and- Obviously, one of the things that we need to do is start figuring out which one goes where.
24:22
You know, umm, umm, there is going to be a little bit- of DevOps related stuff that we need to do for this.
24:28
And so we're going to kind of get a little serious about things here on this project. So umm, your job is to start looking at API calls that we need and we are going to take things from there, okay?
24:43

Bye bye.




Reference Video form --  
hey everybody my name is Noah King I'm a
0:08
senior engineer here at Horizon 3 AI
0:10
wanted to go ahead and give you a quick
0:12
demo into external pin testing and
0:15
external assets within the Horizon 3
0:18
node zero platform so I've already gone
0:21
ahead and logged in the first thing that
0:23
you'll do is go to external assets from
0:26
there you can go ahead and create an
0:28
asset group an asset group is just a
0:31
collection of assets that belong on the
0:33
internet so we'll go ahead and click
0:34
that button you can give it a name uh
0:38
such as corporate
0:41
assets North Carolina and then what
0:44
assets do you want to include uh in this
0:47
case you can give it domains like
0:49
Horizon 3 AI Horizon
0:51
3.com uh you can also Supply IP
0:54
addresses as well so domains or IP
0:57
addresses both are allowed
1:00
from there you can also add a git
1:03
account we support GitHub gitlab and bit
1:06
bucket so I'll go ahead and add that as
1:12
well and then if you want to add your
1:15
AWS account IDs you can do that here as
1:17
well 12 digits from there you can also
1:20
provide a list of company names this
1:22
just allows with subdomain brute forcing
1:25
and uh discovering more assets out there
1:28
on the internet that you might not be
1:29
aware of of so we'll go ahead and add
1:32
that as
1:33
well
1:36
and from there you can create the asset
1:39
group and then you can run asset
1:42
Discovery once asset Discovery starts
1:45
running all the infrastructure will spin
1:47
up in node Zero's uh infrastructure so
1:50
there is no work for deployment on the
1:52
enduser side and let's go ahead and
1:55
let's take a look at one that is
1:57
completed so here is my corporate ass
1:59
Assets in Europe There are 16 domains 52
2:04
IPS and from here what you will have to
2:06
do is authorize what domains you want to
2:09
have pin tested or IPS so from here I
2:12
can go ahead and start to look through
2:14
the list and maybe I say that these two
2:18
are
2:19
authorized additionally you'll notice
2:22
anything with a yellow indicator um that
2:26
might be a thirdparty asset may be
2:28
unreachable
2:30
uh could be out of your scope so you
2:31
want to ensure that you do indeed own
2:33
the assets and are not pin testing other
2:36
company assets from there once you have
2:39
some domains
2:41
authorized you're ready to run a pin
2:44
test to run a pinest you can then click
2:47
external
2:48
pinest walk through the
2:50
steps corporate EU assets give it a
2:55
[Music]
2:57
name and then the recommended defaults
3:01
uh that's just a
3:03
template you can also configure more
3:05
things about the actual attack
3:07
configuration such as password spraying
3:10
uh credential reuse checking for default
3:14
credentials scanning SMB shares turning
3:17
on or off um certain exploits as well as
3:21
post exploitation hash cracking from
3:23
there you can click next you can choose
3:25
a runtime if you want it to run for a
3:27
specified amount of time agreed to the
3:30
legal um statement and from there you
3:32
can run your PIN test and then the
3:34
external pin test will spin up and it
3:37
will go into the real time view from
3:39
there uh you can then once it is
3:42
finished you can actually review the pin
3:43
test so in this case uh this is the
3:46
summary and we had a bunch of different
3:49
attacks that led to different impacts
3:52
within the pinest we can see that
3:54
there's 38 impacts 45 weaknesses 43
3:59
critic potentials involved from there
4:01
you can just start to drill in to
4:04
anything that may be of interest uh for
4:06
the user and then you can look at the
4:09
attack graph you can look at the
4:11
explanations and everything as well uh
4:14
behind the actual
4:16
exploit from here we can see a narrative
4:18
no zero launched on this public IP it
4:22
enumerated a bunch of usernames 160 it
4:26
verified one of them it discovered Azure
4:29
multi Factor off was disabled for an
4:31
intra user and then from there it did
4:34
password spraying it was able to
4:36
discover a refresh token and then it
4:39
discovered a credential it was able to
4:41
log in and from there more and more
4:45
happens but eventually it leads to the
4:47
Microsoft Outlook uh being accessed and
4:51
you can look through the attack paths
4:53
you can find the proofs all those things
4:56
if you're interested in getting started
4:58
with external pin testing uh reach out
5:00
to Horizon 3 AI uh but just to recap
5:04
quickly create an asset group from there
5:07
create an external pin test with the
5:11
asset group and then from there run your
5:13
PIN tests and you can review them when
5:15
you're done that is all hope you enjoyed
5:18
this thank you


XRAY | Discovery



By Ayushi Gandhi

2 min

5

Add a reaction
🔐 Overview
🔄 Functional Modules (Based on Narratives)
1. Asset Management
2. Reconnaissance
3. Attack Execution
4. Vulnerability Scanning
5. Outcome Processing
🧰 Penetration Testing Toolset Used
🧠 AI Integration in Security Workflows
📊 Real-World Penetration Testing Inspiration
🕸️ Security Workflow Summary
🔑 What Makes CyberXray Unique
🔐 Overview
CyberXray is a security automation and intelligence platform designed to:

Continuously assess an organization’s attack surface.

Perform scheduled penetration testing using real-world tools.

Generate human-readable reports using AI.

Map vulnerabilities to compliance controls and risk scores.

It’s not just a scanner. It’s a smart, AI-augmented offensive security orchestrator that mimics real-world adversarial behavior while integrating AI to contextualize results for business and security teams.

🔄 Functional Modules (Based on Narratives)
1. Asset Management
Add/Remove/Exclude/Group assets.

Maintain asset groups, including global visibility and details view.

Initiates reconnaissance based on asset data.

2. Reconnaissance
AI Recon Orchestration:

Starts and finishes automated recon flows.

Generates AI-backed recon reports.

Recon Tools Discovery:

Identifies which tools should be used on the asset.

Recon Run Tracking:

Results listed, viewed, and logged.

3. Attack Execution
Attack Lifecycle:

Attacks are scheduled, identified, updated, and executed.

Support for retries, audit logs, and listings.

Attack Tools:

Tools are identified, configured, and executed per tenant.

Tools are Python-based and tailored to external attack vectors.

Tool Output Handling:

Raw results are parsed, synthesized, mapped to controls, and scored.

4. Vulnerability Scanning
Leverages ZAP, Nikto, and Nuclei for targeted scanning.

Supports scanning lifecycle: start → process → map → complete.

5. Outcome Processing
Post-attack, results are processed by AI to:

Humanize the findings (convert tech to understandable risk)

Generate reports

Map findings to compliance frameworks

Create a CyberXray risk score per run

🧰 Penetration Testing Toolset Used
These tools represent both active recon and vulnerability scanning capabilities:

Tool

Purpose

Type

DNSDumpster

DNS & subdomain enumeration

Active Recon

Nmap

Port scanning & basic service fingerprinting

Both

ZAP

Dynamic Application Security Testing (DAST) for web apps

Vulnerability Scanning

TheHarvester

OSINT (emails, domains, usernames, etc.)

Active Recon

AI Interception Agent

Intercepts and processes security data in real-time using LLMs

Active Recon (+ AI Post-Processing)

Nikto

Web server vulnerability scanning

Vulnerability Scanning

Nuclei

High-speed template-based vulnerability scanner

Vulnerability Scanning

This toolset spans from information gathering → vulnerability identification → AI-driven analysis.

Active Recon: Tools that gather publicly accessible information without directly exploiting vulnerabilities.

Vulnerability Scanning: Tools that interact with systems/services to identify known security weaknesses.

Both: Tools like Nmap that blur the lines by performing both discovery and light probing that may expose vulnerabilities

🧠 AI Integration in Security Workflows
During Recon & Attack Runs:

AI identifies optimal tools based on asset context.

AI determines if recon results need further scanning.

After Tool Execution:

AI parses raw tool outputs.

Synthesizes summaries and maps them to known threats or compliance needs.

Report Generation:

Converts technical data into stakeholder-ready narratives.

Provides compliance mapping (e.g., to CIS, NIST, etc.)

📊 Real-World Penetration Testing Inspiration
Inspired heavily by NodeZero by Only Pentesting Platform Proven in Production , this system mirrors:

External attacker mindset (zero-trust, public exposure first)

No agent install — attacks run independently

Fully autonomous pentests — with smart, explainable results

Scoring models — to show the impact in an executive-friendly way

🕸️ Security Workflow Summary
Tenant Onboards & Adds Assets (e.g., Bloques de software para la gestión de tiempos y movimientos )

Reconnaissance begins → Tools selected → AI summarizes findings

Scheduled attacks run → Tools executed → Output collected

AI analyzes tool output → Generates reports + scores

Results uploaded → Viewed by org or security analysts

Mapped to controls for compliance and auditing

Security posture continuously updated

🔑 What Makes CyberXray Unique
Combines traditional pentesting tools with AI orchestration & summarization

Operates on a per-tenant basis with clear configuration for attack context

Prioritizes human-readable outputs, unlike most scanner tools

Treats pentests as scheduled, auditable, and repeatable units — not one-off gigs


MVP Requirements -- 

👤 Primary User Persona
Cybersecurity Analyst / IT Admin from an organization who wants to:

Test external attack surface

Identify vulnerabilities

Receive human-readable reports

Ensure compliance mapping

🧩 Full User Story: Lifecycle Walkthrough
 

✅ Step 1: Asset Discovery
User Story
As an asset owner or admin, I want to input my root domain (e.g., ticketblox.com) and let the system automatically discover all related assets like subdomains, associated IPs, technologies, or services, so I can select which ones I want to manage and scan.

 

System Behavior
ADV stands for Advanced Enhancement Suggestions and can be Optional

Phase

Action

1	
User Input

Root domain, email list or top-level domain (e.g., ticketblox.com)

2	
Validation

System validates domain format, resolves DNS

3	
Discovery Triggers

Launches a toolchain that collects: subdomains, related IPs, SSL data, WHOIS, OSINT

4	
Tool Execution

Tools run asynchronously with retries and timeouts

5	
AI Enhancement

AI deduplicates, enriches, and scores discovered entries based on confidence

6	
Preview UI

User sees a structured list (subdomain, IP, category, suggested tag, confidence score)

7	
User Action

Select which assets to keep → move to Manual Add step

8	
Post-Selection

Selected assets are saved under the tenant, and available for further grouping/recon

9	
Scoping Rules (ADV)

Let user limit discovery to a subdomain namespace (e.g., only *.tickblocks.com)

 

Edge Cases
 Invalid or unresolvable domain 

Suggestions: We can show error: “Domain does not resolve — please check spelling or DNS settings.”

Too many assets discovered 

Suggestions: We can Paginate results, allow filtering by type, confidence

Duplicate assets from previous scans

No assets discovered

Suggestions: We can Show: “No assets found — you can proceed with manual addition.”

False positives (e.g., unrelated subdomains)

 

Tools Used for Discovery of Assets
References - https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVJXwlo7c=/?moveToWidget=3458764636306917773&cot=14Connect your Miro account 

Tool

Purpose in Discovery

Discovery Role

1	
DNSDumpster

Discover DNS records, subdomains, related hosts

Subdomain Enumeration

2	
TheHarvester

Harvests subdomains, emails, and usernames using OSINT sources like Google, Bing, etc.

OSINT-based Discovery

3	
KnockPy

Subdomain enumeration using wordlists and DNS resolution

Subdomain Brute-Forcing

4	
Fierce

DNS reconnaissance, subdomain brute-forcing, and network mapping

DNS Discovery

5	
DNS Recon

Gathers NS records, MX, zone transfers, brute-force subdomains

DNS Infrastructure Discovery

6	
WhoIs

Gets domain ownership data, registrant info

Registrant Discovery

7	
Dig Utility

DNS query tool used to resolve and extract DNS records

DNS Resolution

8	
NSLookup

Basic DNS record resolution

DNS Resolution

9	
NetCraft

Identify web hosting details, subdomains, tech stack info

Hosting & Tech Stack Info

10	
WhatWeb

Fingerprints technologies used by websites (CMS, servers, etc.)

Tech Stack Discovery

 

✅ Step 2: Manually Add an Asset (Domain/IP)
User Story
As an asset owner or admin, I want to manually add an asset such as ticketlox.comm  or an IP address so that I can immediately initiate recon, configure exclusions, or group it with other assets.

 

System Behavior
Phase

Action

1	
User Input

Asset value (e.g., domain, IP, CIDR, web app URL)

2	
Validation

System validates format and optionally checks DNS resolution

3	
Type Classification

User selects asset type via dropdown (Domain, IP, CIDR (Classless Inter-Domain Routing) , Web App, Cloud Asset, etc.) System may auto-suggest based on pattern

4	
Tag Assignment

User can assign contextual tags: Production, Staging, Critical, etc + Dynamic Tagging from runtime detectors

5	
Exclusion Flags

Option to predefine whether the asset should be excluded from recon/attack

6	
Save Asset

Asset is stored under tenant; ready for grouping and analysis

7	
Optional Grouping

User can assign the asset to a group (existing)

8	
Ownership Verification (ADV)

Option to verify domain ownership via DNS TXT record, HTML file, or email match

9	
Change Detection (ADV)

Warn if an existing asset’s IP, DNS, or cert changes since last addition

 

Edge Cases
Invalid domain/IP format (system rejects)

Asset already exists (system notifies duplication or merges)

User doesn’t have permission to add assets (RBAC enforcement)

Unsupported asset type (e.g., internal IPs)


❓ My Questions for You
What kinds of assets should be allowed?

Just the domains/IPs only? Or also cloud resources, web apps, etc.?

If yes, Should we classify asset types on creation, manually or may be using AI? 

the user can select the type (via dropdown), but add auto-detection + suggestions as a helper

User sees a dropdown with asset types:

Domain, IP Address, Web App, Cloud Asset (e.g., S3 bucket, Azure VM), External Login Page

After input, system auto-detects based on pattern and suggests the right type, e.g.:

ticketblox.com  → “Did you mean: Domain?”

https://app.tickblocks.com → “Looks like a Web App URL”

Final decision is left to the user in case of ambiguity.

Benefit: Helps tailor recon/attack tooling. E.g., Nuclei for web apps, Nmap for IPs, Harvester for domains.

Asset Verification / Ownership Validation (Optional)

Do we want to support asset ownership verification? Especially for public assets to prevent targeting 3rd parties.

Email verification (e.g., for admin@domain.com)?

Benefit: Prevents abuse and ensures responsible scanning.

Asset Change Detection

If the user adds an asset that’s already known — should we:

Show last recon/attack results?

Ask to merge or duplicate with new tracking?

Show what has changed (e.g., DNS/IP shift)?

 Benefit: Enables smarter attack re-runs. Saves time. Encourages reusability.

 

✅ Step 3: Asset Grouping 
 

User Story
As an asset owner or admin, I want to group my assets (domains, IPs, apps) into logical categories like “Public Web Apps” or “Third-Party Vendors” so I can manage, scan, and prioritize them more efficiently.

 

System Behavior
ADV stands for Advanced Enhancement Suggestions and can be Optional

Functionality

Details

1	
Group Creation

User can create a new group with a name, optional description, and tags

2	
Add Assets to Group

Users can assign one or more assets to a group manually or during creation

3	
Group View

UI displays all groups with asset counts, last scanned, score, etc.

4	
Edit/Delete Group

Users can rename, reassign, or delete groups (only soft delete recommended)

5	
Per-asset Toggle

Include/exclude asset in a group

6	
Group Types

User-defined — not forced into fixed categories

7	
Usage in Flows

Recon and Attack modules allow selecting a group to apply bulk operations

8	
Nested Grouping (ADV)

Allow grouping within a group (e.g., “Web Apps” → “Customer-Facing” vs “Internal”)

9	
Group Tags (ADV)

Tags like production, high-priority, staging can be attached to groups for filtering

10	
Group Summary View (ADV)

Summarizes recon/attack history across all assets in the group

11	
Group-level Risk Score (ADV)

 

Aggregates severity across assets 

Aggregate recon/attack results to assign a CyberXray Score to a group based on:

Highest critical finding

Average severity

Time since last recon/scan

 

Edge Cases
Group name already exists

No assets selected for grouping

Grouped assets have mismatched types (e.g., domain + subnet)

Asset already grouped elsewhere

 

❓ My Questions for You
Should assets be allowed in multiple groups?

If yes, how does it impact recon/attack targeting and result aggregation?

If no, should we warn or auto-remove from previous group?

Can a group be created with no assets?

If yes, should it be flagged as “draft“, “inactive” or “pending”?

 

✅ Step 4: Reconnaissance Triggered
 

User Story
As an asset owner or admin, I want to run reconnaissance on a selected asset or group so that I can map out exposed services, subdomains, technologies, and potential entry points before launching any active attacks..

 

System Behavior
Phase

Action

1	
Triggering

Recon can be triggered manually by the user or scheduled recurring recon auto triggered after asset addition

2	
Target Input

Asset(s) or Asset Group selected for reconnaissance

3	
Permission Check

Only the asset owner or an admin can trigger recon. Unauthorized users are blocked.

4	
Tool Selection

Based on asset type, system picks relevant tools (from Supported Recon Tools list).

5	
Tool Orchestration

The selected tools are executed in parallel. Failures or timeouts are retried automatically. Each tool collects raw data about DNS records, subdomains, ports, etc.

6	
Retry Logic

If a tool fails, retry up to 3 times. If it fails on the 4th attempt, mark tool as Broken.

7	
Raw Output Storage

Every tool’s raw output (JSON/text) is saved for audits, debugging, and report processing.

8	
AI Summarization

AI analyzes the raw recon data and and generates an executive-level summary of findings (key risks, exposed services, recommendations) — e.g., “3 critical ports exposed”, “Outdated SSL certificate found”, “Login portal detected at /admin.”

9	
Report Generation

A detailed recon report is created including: asset summary, tool results, AI insights, and recommended next steps. It’s viewable in the UI and downloadable as PDF, JSON, or CSV.

10	
Metadata Updates

The asset’s profile is updated with any new data discovered during recon — e.g., open ports, subdomains, DNS records, tech stack, SSL expiry, etc.

11	
Exclusion Handling

Any excluded assets (marked by user or policy) are automatically skipped and logged. User is warned if recon is attempted on an excluded asset.

12	
Recon Status Update

User sees real-time or post-run status updates — completed, partial failure, skipped assets, or tool errors.

13	
Audit Logging

The system logs who triggered the recon, when it was run, what tools were used, how long it took, and what was discovered. These logs are tenant-specific and used for traceability.

14	
Recon Diffing (ADV)

If this is not the first recon, the system compares it to the previous one and highlights what changed — e.g., “2 new ports found”, “DNS A record changed”.

 

Recon Lifecycle Status Values
Pending → Job created, waiting to start

In Progress → Recon running, tools executing in parallel

Tool Running → Individual tool executing

Tool Completed → Tool finished successfully

Tool Failed → Tool failed, retry scheduled

Broken → Tool failed more than 3 times, marked as unusable for this run

Partially Completed → Recon finished but some tools failed

Completed → All tools finished successfully

Skipped → Asset excluded from recon due to settings

 

Edge Cases
Tools timeout or crash (partial recon)

Suggestions: Retry up to N times, notify user if final failure

Recon run on already scanned asset

Suggestions: Show previous recon report, suggest re-run or diff mode

Asset marked as excluded

Skip and log reason, show warning on run screen

 No data returned by any tool

Warn user and prompt to try Deep profile or verify asset is live

Tool update/logic change

System should version recon runs and tools used

Recon report incomplete due to network restrictions

External services block or rate-limit scans (e.g., DNSDumpster API fails)

 

Supported Recon Tools
Tool

Purpose

1	
DNSDumpster

DNS & subdomain enumeration

2	
TheHarvester

Email, subdomain, and username harvesting

3	
KnockPy

Subdomain brute-forcing

4	
Fierce

DNS mapping & discovery

5	
DNS Recon

NS/MX records, brute-force subdomains

6	
WhoIs

Domain ownership and registration data

7	
Dig Utility

DNS record lookups

8	
NSLookup

Basic DNS record resolution

9	
NetCraft

Hosting, infrastructure, and tech stack info

10	
WhatWeb

Web application tech stack fingerprinting

 

❓ My Questions for You
When should recon be run?

Automatically after adding an asset?

Manually triggered by user?

Do we allow custom recon profiles where the user chooses tools (e.g., “Run only DNSRecon + WhatWeb”)?

Do users need pre-run tool previews (show what tools will be used)?

Should we store raw output from each tool or Do we combine results from multiple tools into one unified recon report ?

Do we need recon “diff” comparison mode to highlight changes across runs?

Are there rate limits per tenant to prevent abuse?

 

✅ Step 5: Attack Scheduling and Execution
 

User Story
As an asset owner or admin, I want to schedule and execute penetration test attacks on selected assets or asset groups so that I can identify security vulnerabilities in a controlled and compliant manner, at a time that minimizes operational disruption.

 

System Behavior
User schedules attack for asset or group (e.g., “2AM on Sunday”).

System spins up Kali/Arch container dynamically outside VPC.

Container reads config (e.g., tenant ID, target asset, tools to run).

Tools like Nmap, Nikto, or TheHarvester run Python-based modules.

Output is stored and zipped; uploaded to cloud (e.g., S3).

Attack audit logs are processed post-run.

Phase

Action 

Triggering

On-demand or scheduled (daily/weekly), with notification settings

Target Selection

User selects one or more assets or asset groups for an attack. 

Group execution supports parallel asset testing (need confirmation)

Permission Check

Only asset owners or admins can schedule or execute attacks. Unauthorized attempts are blocked.

Pre-Execution Checks

System verifies: 

Asset not excluded from attacks, 

No conflicting scans or jobs running,

Asset has not exceeded rate limit (3 max runs)

Selected attack tools exist in Attack Directory and are active

Parameters do not exceed configured thresholds (e.g., max threads)

Container resources are available.

Container image health and toolset version checks pass before spin-up

Run Settings JSON from Attack Directory is valid

Toolset Selection

Tools are selected from the centralized Attack Directory 

Attack Suite includes: DNSDumpster, Nmap, ZAP (with Interceptor), TheHarvester, Nikto, and Nuclei. Auto-selection is based on asset type and recon findings (V1), with manual selection available in vNext.

Configuration

Defaults from Run Settings JSON, parameter overrides (max threads, payload lists, templates)

Containerized Execution

Spin up ephemeral Arch Linux or Kali Linux containers with preinstalled tools. Allocate CPU, memory, and network resources per test complexity. 

Mount S3 bucket inside container for direct output storage. 

run local Python utilities 

AI Agent Coordination

AI agents fetch the correct attack module, execute against targets, and collect raw outputs. For high-volume logs, AI sends data through Gemini (or similar) for summarization before parsing

Execution Control

Tools run in parallel where possible; each has its own lifecycle status (Pending, Running, Completed, Failed). Failed tools retry and then marked as Broken.

Retry Logic

Failed tools are retried up to 3 times; after that, marked as Broken and skipped for the run.

Raw Output Storage

All tool logs are stored (JSON/text) for audits, debugging, and future analysis. Outputs are normalized and indexed in a time-series database for audit trails and historical comparison

AI Processing

AI reviews all outputs, extracts Proof-of-Concept (PoC) evidence,  identifies vulnerabilities, explains risks, and recommends mitigation steps.

Automated Scoring

Map findings to security frameworks (NIST SP 800-53, CMMC L1, ISO 27001). Compute risk scores per asset and per group.

Report Generation

Detailed attack report is compiled into PDF and JSON, including AI summary, raw tool output references, PoC evidence, severity scoring, and control mapping.

Metadata Updates

Asset’s risk profile and CyberXray Score updated based on attack findings.

Audit Logging

Who scheduled, who executed, when, tools used, results, and duration are optionally logged.

Completion Actions

User can export report, create a Jira/SOC ticket, schedule re-test, or trigger remediation workflows. Targeted re-tests can be scheduled for specific vulnerabilities

 

Attack Lifecycle Status Values
Pending → Job created, queued for execution.

Scheduled → Job set for a future execution time.

In Progress → Attack running; tools executing in parallel.

Tool Running → Individual tool executing.

Tool Completed → Tool executed successfully.

Tool Failed → Failed, retry scheduled.

Broken → Failed more than 3 times, skipped.

Completed → All tools executed successfully.

Skipped → Asset excluded from attack policy.

 

Edge Cases
Scheduled job missed due to failure in container spin-up

Retry up to 3 times, then mark Broken

Domain blocks scanning or blacklists IP

Output file not generated/uploaded (network or storage failure)

User cancels mid-run

Mark job as Cancelled and store partial results

Tool fails mid-run (fallback to partial report + notify user)

Terminate and mark as Partial

 

Supported Attack Tools Table
Tool

Purpose

DNSDumpster

DNS & subdomain enumeration to identify attack surface.

Nmap

Port scanning, service version detection, and OS fingerprinting.

ZAP (with Interceptor)

Web application DAST and request/response manipulation.

TheHarvester

OSINT collection of emails, usernames, subdomains for targeted attacks.

Nikto

Web server vulnerability scanning for outdated/misconfigured components.

Nuclei

Template-based scanning for CVEs, misconfigurations, and known exploits.

 

✅ Step 6: Vulnerability Scanning
 

User Story
As an asset owner or admin, I want to perform a targeted vulnerability scan after an attack run to confirm identified weaknesses, detect known CVEs, and validate misconfigurations, so I can prioritize remediation efforts with high confidence.

 

Key Difference from Attacks
Attacks (Step 5) are broad, exploratory penetration tests intended to simulate a real-world adversary and uncover potential entry points.

Vulnerability Scanning (Step 6) is confirmatory and targeted — it checks for specific, known weaknesses (CVE databases, misconfigurations, outdated software) and provides definitive evidence for remediation.

Attacks might find “possible” vulnerabilities; vulnerability scanning confirms “actual, reproducible” vulnerabilities with supporting data.

 

System Behavior
ZAP, Nuclei, and Nikto are executed against the target.

Scan lifecycle: start → scan → process output → map results → mark complete.

Scan results are analyzed by AI:

Human-readable summaries

Compliance control mapping (e.g., CIS, NIST)

Risk scoring (CyberXray Score)

Phase

Action

Triggering

Vulnerability scanning can be:  

Auto-triggered immediately after Step 5: Attack Scheduling & Execution  

Scheduled independently  

Run on-demand for a specific asset or group

Target Selection

Assets or asset groups selected for scanning.  Option to focus only on assets flagged in the previous attack report.

Permission Check

Only asset owners or admins can trigger scans. Unauthorized attempts are blocked.

Pre-Execution Checks

System verifies:  

Asset not excluded from vulnerability scans  

No conflicting scans in progress  

Selected scan tools are available and functional  

Scan parameters within allowed limits (e.g., concurrency, timeouts)  

Container resources are available  

Tool configurations (templates, payloads) are valid

Toolset Selection

Core vulnerability scan suite includes:  - ZAP, Nuclei, Nikto 

Configuration

User can configure:  

Scan depth  

Target scope  

Template sets for Nuclei  

Custom payload lists  

Authentication credentials (for protected endpoints) 

Defaults can be preloaded from Attack Directory profiles.

Containerized Execution

Spin up ephemeral Arch/Kali Linux containers with vulnerability scan tools preinstalled.  Allocate CPU/memory/network resources based on scan complexity.  Mount S3 bucket for direct output storage.

Execution Control

Tools run in parallel where possible. Each tool has lifecycle status (Pending, Running, Completed, Failed). Failures retry up to 3 times before being marked Broken.

Raw Output Storage

Store all scan results (JSON/text/XML) in central repository. Normalize and index in time-series DB for historical tracking and compliance evidence.

Parsing & AI Processing

Tool-specific parsers extract:  – CVE identifiers  – Severity levels  – Proof-of-Concept (PoC) details  – Impact and remediation suggestions  - AI enriches results, removes false positives, and provides human-readable summaries.

Compliance Mapping

Findings mapped to relevant standards:  - NIST SP 800-53  - CMMC L1  - ISO 27001  - OWASP Top 10  - MITRE ATT&CK

Scoring

Update CyberXray Score for each asset and group based on scan results.

Report Generation

Generate vulnerability scan report (PDF/JSON/HTML) containing:  - Executive summary  - Technical details  - Confirmed CVEs  - Misconfigurations  - PoC evidence  - Compliance mapping  - Risk score

Metadata Updates

Asset metadata updated with confirmed vulnerabilities, CVE links, and last-scan timestamp.

Audit Logging

Log who initiated the scan, when, which tools ran, duration, and summary of results.

Completion Actions

Export reports  - Create remediation tickets (Jira, ServiceNow)  - Schedule retests for confirmed vulnerabilities.

 

Edge Cases
Auth-required endpoints fail to scan properly

High false positives from template-based scanners (e.g., Nuclei)

Scan blocked by CDN/WAF

Scan retries needed due to partial coverage

 

Supported Vulnerability Scanning Tools Table
Tool

Purpose

ZAP

Dynamic Application Security Testing (DAST) for web apps; detects runtime vulnerabilities.

Nuclei

High-speed scanning for CVEs, misconfigurations, and exposed services using customizable templates.

Nikto

Web server vulnerability scanning for outdated or misconfigured software/components.

 

✅ Step 7: Results + Reporting
User Story
I want a clear report of what was found, how risky it is, and how to fix it.

System Behavior
AI summarizes results into executive and technical sections.

Maps findings to OWASP Top 10, MITRE ATT&CK, etc.

Displays CyberXray Score (org-wide, per-asset, per-run).

Allows PDF export or dashboard view.

Historical runs can be compared for regression analysis.

Edge Cases
📉 Score anomaly (e.g., score drops due to parser bug)

📤 Export fails or malformed report

🔒 Sensitive info exposed in raw logs (AI filters apply redaction)

 

🔁 Summary: End-to-End Flow
User adds or discovers assets (auto & manual) → 

classifies/tags & groups them → 

triggers or schedules recon (AI-picked tools) → 

recon results summarized & metadata updated → 

schedules/executes attacks in isolated containers → 

targeted vuln scans confirm & map findings → 

AI generates scored, compliance-mapped reports → 

user views, downloads, integrates with remediation, or schedules retests.




Recon X package

Overview
ReconX is a lightweight, asynchronous reconnaissance framework designed to orchestrate multiple discovery tools in parallel, persist artifacts, and track execution metadata.

Key Features
Parallel Execution — Run multiple tools concurrently for speed and efficiency

Standardized Interface — Unified format for inputs, outputs, and logs

Artifact Persistence — Store outputs and metadata for every run

Error Handling — Retries, timeouts, and graceful failure handling

Async Architecture — High-performance, asyncio-based concurrent engine

Extensible Design — Plug in your own tools with BaseTool

Structured Logging — Integrated JsonLogger for traceable execution

Core Features
Tool Orchestration
Concurrent tool execution

Tool discovery and dynamic loading

Timeout + retry mechanisms

Fault-tolerant execution

Artifact Management
Artifacts saved under artifacts/<run_id>/reconx/<target>/

Timestamped, tool-specific outputs

Multiple backend support: Local, S3, PostgreSQL

Status Tracking
Real-time status: PENDING, RUNNING, SUCCESS, FAILURE, etc.

Execution metrics and logging

Full error traceability

Tool Integration
Supported reconnaissance tools include:

Nmap — Port scanning & service detection

Amass — Subdomain enumeration

DNSRecon — DNS reconnaissance

Subfinder — Subdomain discovery

TheHarvester — OSINT data gathering

Tools Installation Instructions
Prerequisites


# Install dependencies
poetry install       


# Install system tools (macOS)
brew install nmap amass dnsrecon theharvester subfinder
# Ubuntu/Debian
sudo apt-get install nmap amass dnsrecon theharvester subfinder
# Optional (Python tools)
pipx install dnsrecon
pipx install theharvester


# Ensure tools are on PATH
which nmap amass dnsrecon theharvester subfinder
Configuration
Tool Customization


nmap_tool = NmapTool(
  target="example.com",
  output_dir=Path("artifacts/custom"),
  nmap_args=["-sV", "-Pn", "-p", "80,443"],
  timeout=1800,
  run_id="custom-run"
)
How to Use
Programmatic Usage


from src.reconx.main import ReconX
from src.reconx.schemas.reconx_request_schema import ReconXRequest
request = ReconXRequest(
  target="example.com",
  tools=[ReconToolName.NMAP, ReconToolName.SUBFINDER],
  run_id="your-run-id"
)
reconx = ReconX()
result = await reconx.run_async(request)
Individual Tool Example


tool = NmapTool(target="example.com", output_dir=Path("artifacts"), run_id="scan-001")
result = await tool.execute()
print(result.to_dict())
Integration Architecture
High-Level Overview


ReconX → ReconRunner → Tool Registry
      ↘ 
      Metadata → Artifact Saver → BaseTool → Tool
Component Responsibilities
ReconX (main.py)

Orchestrates execution, validates request, aggregates results

ReconRunner

Runs tools concurrently, monitors timeout, logs errors

Tool Registry

Maps tool names to classes dynamically

BaseTool

Abstract base for consistent tool implementation

Artifact Saver

Saves tool outputs and metadata to local/S3/db

Integration Steps
Step 1: Import ReconX


from src.reconx.main import ReconX
from src.reconx.schemas.reconx_request_schema import ReconXRequest
Step 2: Configure Environment


# Check installation
which nmap amass dnsrecon subfinder theharvester
Step 3: Build Request


request = ReconXRequest(
  target="your-target.com",
  tools=[ReconToolName.NMAP, ReconToolName.AMASS],
  run_id="run-001"
)
Step 4: Execute Recon


reconx = ReconX()
result = await reconx.run_async(request)
Best Practices
Retry on transient tool failures

Tune timeouts per tool complexity

Sanitize and validate all inputs

Monitor execution metrics and logs

Clean temp artifacts if not needed

Example
Sample Request 


{
  "target": "hypertrends.com",
  "tools": ["nmap", "dnsrecon", "amass", "subfinder", "theharvester"],
  "run_id": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000"
}
 

Sample Response


{
    "run_id": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000",
    "domain": "hypertrends.com",
    "tools": [
      "nmap",
      "dnsrecon",
      "amass",
      "subfinder",
      "theharvester"
    ],
    "artifacts_dir": "/Users/ayushi/Desktop/cyber-catch/cyberxray-be/artifacts/123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000/reconx",
    "results": [
      {
        "tool_name": "nmap",
        "status": "SUCCESS",
        "start_time": "2025-08-23T10:20:21.767388+00:00",
        "end_time": "2025-08-23T10:24:30.846335+00:00",
        "duration_seconds": 249.078947,
        "retries": 0,
        "output_path": "/Users/ayushi/Desktop/cyber-catch/cyberxray-be/artifacts/123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000/reconx/nmap/nmap_hypertrends.com_success.txt",
        "error": null
      },
      {
        "tool_name": "dnsrecon",
        "status": "SUCCESS",
        "start_time": "2025-08-23T10:20:21.767572+00:00",
        "end_time": "2025-08-23T10:20:27.835242+00:00",
        "duration_seconds": 6.06767,
        "retries": 0,
        "output_path": "/Users/ayushi/Desktop/cyber-catch/cyberxray-be/artifacts/123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000/reconx/dnsrecon/dnsrecon_hypertrends.com_success.txt",
        "error": null
      },
      {
        "tool_name": "amass",
        "status": "SUCCESS",
        "start_time": "2025-08-23T10:20:21.781161+00:00",
        "end_time": "2025-08-23T10:22:50.935386+00:00",
        "duration_seconds": 149.154225,
        "retries": 0,
        "output_path": "/Users/ayushi/Desktop/cyber-catch/cyberxray-be/artifacts/123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000/reconx/amass/amass_hypertrends.com_success.txt",
        "error": null
      },
      {
        "tool_name": "subfinder",
        "status": "SUCCESS",
        "start_time": "2025-08-23T10:20:21.785673+00:00",
        "end_time": "2025-08-23T10:20:41.143350+00:00",
        "duration_seconds": 19.357677,
        "retries": 0,
        "output_path": "/Users/ayushi/Desktop/cyber-catch/cyberxray-be/artifacts/123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000/reconx/subfinder/subfinder_hypertrends.com_success.txt",
        "error": null
      },
      {
        "tool_name": "theharvester",
        "status": "SUCCESS",
        "start_time": "2025-08-23T10:20:21.788966+00:00",
        "end_time": "2025-08-23T10:21:12.762786+00:00",
        "duration_seconds": 50.97382,
        "retries": 0,
        "output_path": "/Users/ayushi/Desktop/cyber-catch/cyberxray-be/artifacts/123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000/reconx/theharvester/theharvester_hypertrends.com_success.txt",
        "error": null
      }
    ]
  }
Troubleshooting
Common Issues & Fixes
Issue

Resolution

1	
Tool Not Found

Check PATH, reinstall with brew or apt

2	
Permission

Check write permissions on artifact directory

3	
Timeout

Increase RECONX_DEFAULT_TIMEOUT in .env

4	
Memory Crash

Limit number of concurrent tools or target scope

Contributing
Add a New Tool
Extend BaseTool

Implement async def execute()

Register in tool_registry.py

Add to ReconToolName enum

Write tests and docs

Code Standards
Use type hints

Add docstrings

Follow existing file/module structure

Include try/except with JsonLogger



ReconX Package - Overview and Integration Guide

Hi. Hi team. So, I'm creating this video to explain the Recon X package that we have created, which will be responsible for doing the reconnaissance using different, different tools.
0:15
For now, we have integrated tools like Amass, DNS Recon, Nmap, Subfinder, and the Harvester, which will be responsible for doing the passive reconnaissance and will be able to generate the output under the artifacts folder for now.
0:32
We do have a plan to integrate the S3 bucket, uh, the output inside the S3 bucket, So that is also something that we will be working on.
0:48
So let me just explain to you what we have done so far. So in this reconnaissance package, we can do the tool orchestration where we can have one or more tools being used, uhm, parallelly and, uh, we individually maintain the information of the reconnaissance for each tool.
1:12
The information that we get from each tool is being saved under the artifacts folder, which is this. I'll get back to that.
1:21
Uhm, apart from that, we also do manage the statuses of each tool, whether it has timed out successfully done, partially done, or it's in the failure position, whatever it is, we get the status.
1:36
Uhm, currently everything is being saved under the artifacts, as I've already mentioned. The tools that we have integrated are these five tools for now, and, uh, whatever new tool we want to add, we can easily do it with, uh, this structure.
1:59
So, what we have to do is we have this tool registry. In there, whichever tools that are available are being registered, and will be executed parallelly.
2:12
So, if there's any more tool that we want to add or use can be done. So, uhm, that's how we register the tool, and that's how the tools that we are listed are being used.
2:28
Apart from that, these are the artifacts. Currently, we are just supporting this, but, uhm, as and when we move forward, we have the plan to have the S3 saver as well, which we will be saving the information inside the S3.
2:45
Okay. So, for For managing the tools, we have one way to Now, BaseTool is responsible for having the common, uh, managing the common functionality which all the tools might have, which is handling the error, handling the timeout, then saving the information, uhm, doing the subprocess that is running
3:08
it in parallel, and, yeah, that's all it covers. It's like saving the information and everything else, so that is what BaseTool is, and each tool, uh, inherits the BaseTool, and each tool will, first of all, have its default arguments, if we want, we can pass on our arguments as well, but for now, we
3:31
have kept the default arguments which is then passed to. You know, process it, and, uh, we have the handling of the timeout, we have the handling of the, uhm, any unexpected error, and whenever everything works fine, we save it, save the information currently inside the artifacts folder, but we will
3:58
do it in the S3 bucket as well. So, this is how it's done, uhm, Okay, let me show you the request and response.
4:14
So, in request, we can add one or more tools, uhm, and if we want, if we just try, let me just show you by an example, If we try it to add any tool which is not registered, it will directly throw an error as, uhm, that validation error expected are these tools.
4:41
So, and we can add one or more tools, and And even if we don't add anything, we have the default tools being set up.
4:49
So, whatever we choose will work for this. So, let me just do subfinder and dnsrecon. This will run, and So, the way artifacts folder works is, uhm, whichever tools we have mentioned, it will create a subfolder for that tool, and it will generate the, sorry, just, uhm, output based on that for the nmap
5:34
for the script. So, the artifacts, the runid, and that's that, we have reconnects, uhm, the folder name, and the output, which is this one.
5:44
For emas, I've already run that, but, yeah, this one. Ticketblocks. Okay. So, yeah, that's how the project package or package, to summarize this, the, we can integrate one or more tools, we can use one or more tools.
6:10
For integrating, we need to do the tool registry. We have already provided the readme overview of how the, uhm, package works, what we need to do.
6:24
We have rewards. We have provided an overview of the tools that we have integrated, if someone wants to install them, how they can install them, what are the tags, what, everything, every information regarding that, so.
6:40
All this information, then we have the main file, over here is the main, which we'll call the runner. And runner will select the tools based on either the user input or else our default, uhm, I can show you, what this looks like, so, yeah, so main file, then we have recon runner, tool registry, then,
7:15
yes, uhm, we do have the metadata tracker, which you can see in the API, which is the start time, end time, uh, duration in seconds, what is the output path, currently since it is in local artifacts, so, this is the complete path, then which tools are used, for which tool it is happening, whether it
7:35
is success or timeout, it will look like that. So, that is the job of metadata tracker. Artifact saver will save the information in the artifacts.
7:48
Base tool I have already explained. Run ID is basically, uhm, the ID that we want to pass. If we don't pass it, that is fine as well.
7:59
It will generate a new run ID for the, uhm, run. I'll update the API name. Please ignore that. Uhm, yeah, the S3 or storage that we want to add.
8:14
And the tool implementation is this one. So, this is the folder structure. These are all the tools that are integrated.
8:25
And the output is attached in the conference page mentioned here, where we have the domain. And for each domain, what commands we are using and what output we are getting.
8:40

Uh, let me know what your views are. Thank you. Bye-bye.


VulnX Package


So, I'm creating this video to provide you, uhm, a high-level update on what all we have covered so far.
0:10
This is going to be a very high-level thing, I'm not going to go- dive deep into this. Okay. Okay. As you can see, we have worked on two different packages.
0:23
as one is the deepest. Connects, which deals, uh, completely with the recon tools and the wall next, which deals with the vulnerability tools.
0:32
Now inside the recon X, we have two, uh, integrated tools like a mass DNS, recon and map sub finder and the harvester.
0:42
And the output of which is already being shared with, uh, to you under the artifacts folder. We have. Sorry, recon X and all the tools that are integrated with the results that we have obtained so far.
0:58
So the recon X package is completely, um, working where we are able to see this information in S3 as well.
1:06
So basically the artifacts folder that I have shared is, uh, something that I've downloaded from S3 unit. So whatever tool that we are running, all the information is being provided inside the S3.
1:20
So this is the recon part. Now the next part is the vulnerability scanning. The for the vulnerability, we have worked on tools like Metasploit, Nikto and MAP.
1:32
again the output for which you can find inside the wall necks Nikto and here's the Nmap. Okay, um, okay, let's move forward.
1:48
For the Metasploit, with help of Hamal, I have been able to set up some default auxiliary that is the vulnerability scanning modules.
1:58
So that is, um, around 14 modules. That we have predefined or preset that will run for all the targets, irrespective of what the recon information says.
2:09
So, um, this is running and you can find all the details inside this. Okay. Um, apart from that, we have, I have worked on the agents.
2:23
Now I have created a created one agent, which is responsible for, uh, fetching the recon data. I have provided the recon context in the string format for now.
2:36
And, um, I've generated one prompt. Now this prompt is responsible for taking in the, um, default tools and, uh, the recon context and give me a list of module paths for the metasploit to be run.
2:56
So the denial list over here is the mod, uh, default modules, like the LLM should not be giving us the response, which is already provided in our default modules.
3:10
Like it should give us path, which are apart from that. And, uh, the recon context is also provided so that it decides what needs to be done and which modules should we select.
3:27
So as discussed, um, we have by default 14 modules out of which if you want to see, um, we have integrated the LLM as well and it was able to suggest us some different, uh, um, module paths and it has been successfully done.
3:48
So 14 are default and the rest is something that So, the running part, it's working, there's no issue with that.
4:01
Now, for the fine tuning. So, let me show you the, what I am working on. I have created one MSF plugin, uh, plugin that will be responsible for doing various operations using the MSF console, which is, um, the searching of the module, the getting the information about the module path.
4:25
Whether the module path inside that MSF, uh, is present or not, and showing of the module. So, what I have tried to do is, when creating one agent, I provided this tool to the agent.
4:44
And what I want to do is that agent should be able to run that tool. Particular function internally, and provide details based on that.
4:53
So, uh, that is something that I'm working on. It is not able to currently, appropriately run or execute that, uhm, plugin right now.
5:09
But, this is something that I'm working on. If we can get the, agent to choose which, uh, module path it wants, and if it can run and check by its own, then it's fine.
5:22
If this is something that is too much for the agent to do, then, uh, worst case scenario is, we will provide all the details in the prompt itself.
5:33
As a context, uhm, the agent will be able to then parse and give us the response. The second thing I want to do is, that I will be doing is, whatever response that we get from the LLM, I will be checking first whether that particular module path already exists inside the Metasploit or not.
5:56
If it's not existing, then it will break. Then, hence, we will have to pre-check whether the response from the LLM is correct or not.
6:04
So, these are the two things that I'm, uhm, working on. Again, I'm not sure how the NSF plugin will work in, but these are my thoughts.
6:14
I'm just step-by-step working on it. So, yeah. Apart from that, whatever I'm running, I'm running through the API. Where I provide the run ID, the domain, the tools that we want to run, and in some case, I provide the port as well, depending on what, which tool it is.
6:40
So, all that is running using this API. So, this is my update. We have two packages, reconnaissance and wallnax, and wallnax, wallnax is able to generate all the responses and give us the, uh, information on inside the S3.
6:59
And, uhm, in progress, we have one agent as well, where agent is working, like it is giving us the modules.
7:06
But now, we need to see if those modules are absolutely correct as well as available for the current version or not.
7:16
And also, the support for this too. So, yeah, that's it from my end. Let me know if you have any more doubts, okay?
7:25

Thank you. Bye-bye.



2. 

00:01
Hi everyone, so in this video, I'll walk you through the reconnaissance as well as the vulnerability tools. We have used the outputs that they have generated and finally, how our AI system is designed to generate the human readable summary.
00:24
And the vulnerability focus summary. Okay, let me just go ahead and first of all introduce you with the Recon package.
00:38
So we have this Recon X package and bare minimum, what it will take is the run ID. If we have two hours self, then we can pass it on.
00:53
Otherwise, it will generate on its own. And the least thing that we need to update is the domain. To which domain we need to, umm, do the reconnaissance part.
01:06
Other things are still configurable where we have already set some T4 tools, even- So if the user doesn't select, or if anyone doesn't select, the dconax package would be able to scan through and umm, run all the default tools.
01:27
We can pass on our specific ports, or the arguments for that particular tool that we want. So, if we have any meta data, then we can pass on that as well.
01:43
If, if we have any specific command that we want to run for that particular tool, that can also be passed.
01:50
So, we have all the flexibility for this package. Whatever we want to do, however we want to, we can do it.
01:59
But to run the- What is up? The bare minimum thing that is absolutely required is the do-me or the target information.
02:08
Okay. Now, let me show you an S3. So, under, in S3, we have one bucket. And under that, we have Artifex folder, where each run ID generates its own.
02:24
Umm, the con tools information. I have this in my local, I can show it to you. Okay. So, as you can see, this, this is the Artifex folder.
02:37
Under that, we have the run ID. And under that, we have the recon next door. And the one next door.
02:44
So, let's move ahead and first look it. At the subfinder. So, we have run it against the hypertrains.com target.
03:00
The output here shows a large list of discovered subdomains. This will help us to map the attacks of race. All the different hosts that could be.
03:13
Tested later. So, as you can see, this is how the output is being logged into this. We, apart from that, we also log which tool it is, what command is used, what is the target information.
03:30
If it's successful, then it's success. If it gets timed out, or if there's an error, then it will log. That as well.
03:38
At what time this was completed, and was saved under this, um, sg is also being, uhh, logged. So, that's how it works.
03:54
Next I would like to show you the nmap command. Now, next is nmap. Which is basically for the port and service scanner.
04:05
As you can see, what we have run is this command. Umm, the output shows that the port 80 and 443 are open, as well as the 22.
04:19
Umm. And we can also identify from this, that the. The web server engine X on port 80. As you can see.
04:32
So, basically this gives us a clear picture of which services are publicly exposed and what software they are running using the uh, in-map command.
04:44
And same for DNS. We- are vlogging the tool, the command, the timestamp at which this was saved, the address of it, and uh, yeah.
05:03
So, that's how the folder structure is. So, under artifacts, we have the run ID. Under the run ID, we have, if it's a recall.
05:13
On result, then it's under econics. If it's a vulnerability result, then it's under the world next. And, under that also, based on, let me just show you this one.
05:26
Based on what tool we have run, or, if there are multiple commands that we can, we want to run in the future, right now we just have one that we are running.
05:36
But, it's not. In the if we want to run multiple, then we can add those files as well. So, each, um, tool, and then it's this, uh, output.
05:49
Okay. So, that's that. Okay. So, next is the AI summation. The optimization of the recon output.
06:05
Up till now, I have showed how the output is being added, what each tool does. Now, I will show you how AI is summarizing all the details.
06:16
Now, instead of analyzing 100 of lines of outputs, we just pass all the structured recon data. Into the recon summary agent.
06:29
Now, the recon summary agent is basically responsible for highlighting the key findings in the most humanized way.
06:40
If we can see, we have one summary folder, and if you want to check, it's already on yesterday and so on.
06:48
So, under the, summary label, we have two files. One is the human readable summary, which if we want, we can also show it on the UI site that this is the reconnaissance that we have done.
07:07
These are the tools that have run and what are the information that's, key findings. And everything, basically in the most humanized way, is being added oil.
07:24
And next is the vulnerability summary. This is umm, basically the all the details for umm.
07:37
Mm. Mm. Okay. So, okay, basically this is much more structured for the tool consumption. It extracts these service banners, devotions, the, and basically it creates a Jason-like structure, which will be for the U.
08:01
You use for fetching all the auxiliary modules that we want for the vulnerability scanning. As you can see, uh, this is in more detailed form, which we do not want to display to add, uh, to the, uh, people, but it's mostly for us to understand.
08:25
What are the things that are currently being there in our current, uh, based on the recon outputs? So, this is the JSON format of all the details that have been obtained from the recon data, which will be further used for vulnerability scanning.
08:47
Okay, so basically, Okay, this pipeline helps us to go from raw recon data to human insight to actionable module planning.
09:02
With all this data, we will, we are ready for the next part. That is the vulnerability scanning. Okay, so now we have seen the recon, but let's move to the vulnerability scanning.
09:19
Umm, similar to the reconx, we do not have to add much more details for vulnerability. All we need is the domain.
09:28
And yes, the run ID should be same as the one that was passed into recon. Then only it will work in a synchronized way, otherwise.
09:38
It will cause an issue. So, for the world next, the two most important part is the run ID that, uh, using which the recon was done and the domain.
09:51
Tool config, again, if you do not, if we do not want to pass, we have default tools that we have set, which will buy the for- all run all the vulnerabilities, umm, information.
10:07
So, let's go report now. So, again, only three things useful for in this case. So, this is our one next package and the three tools that we have integrated for the vulnerability right now is the N-map, the Nikto and the- Alright.
10:26
This is the exploit. Each of those you can already find in the S3 bucket. We have the- Oh, why am I able to click?
10:38
Okay. Each of those you can see all the data in here. The modules that we have run, the output that we have got.
10:51
Oops. This is not the one. Oh. I think they should work otherwise, alright. Me. Yeah. Mmm. This is the second user that I heard.
11:08
Okay. No, me. Um, okay. So, basically I have to run- in local and forgot to push this on a stick.
11:17
I'll update it and we'll let you know. Okay. So, that's the vulnerability part. The, major thing that we are currently working on the fetching of the auxiliary modules using the metasploidal agent.
11:38
So, basically the plan is to have the auxiliary modules fetched based on the recon insights and the system prompts.
11:51
We start by feeding the recon summary from the previous tab, that is from the recon information. Uh, And as well.
12:01
Okay. Thanks. Bye. you Using the different outputs from Nmap, from DNS Recon, subfinder, and the summary that we have generated is passed to the LLM agent.
12:15
This is basically for structuring the facts and set the foundation for the optimal Metasploic modules.
12:28
Let me just show you. So we have this prompt where we are providing it all the information to extract the data.
12:39
Uh, uh, okay. The Metasploic adhesion is currently backed by the summation. And for doing that, we have registered one plugin, MSF plugin.
12:59
Now, MSF plugin is basically responsible for, um, running the commands for MSF, using the MSF console, and getting all the, module information.
13:17
So, let me explain it to you in this way. The recon summary is fetched. It is passed to the LLM agent.
13:26
The LLM agent, then based on the prompts and the data, it will first of all go ahead to the MSF plugin, and try to fetch all the auxiliary, oops.
13:39
Yeah, try to fetch all the auxiliary modules currently present for that Metasploid version. Now, once we get all the auxiliary modules, it will then check for uhh, whether that uhh, based on the recon data, which auxiliary modules we need to use.
13:59
And based on that, it will, will then give us the list of auxiliary modules that we need to run. I have one screen shot, I can show it to you.
14:13
So, as you can see, the agent has called the MSF plug-in, and plug-in then checks by itself, and it finally, the agent is given.
14:26
Able to give us the auxiliary module parts, which we can run by ourselves, and the output of which is being saved in our system, with the path that we have added, um.
14:50
The ports and everything. So, everything that binds on the prompt, we have strictly provided that this should be the output only with the auxiliary path, type should be auxiliary, what should be the host and port name, and all of this is being done using the decon data that we have passed.
15:15
So, in summary, we fetch the recon context from S3, use a finely tuned metasploid agent powered by semantic kernel, and then plan smartly how to get or fetch the auxiliary modules based on the facts.
15:39
Then, again, we validate from our end, and, uh, clean raw output is being saved. So, this pipeline turns the recon into insight into automated scanning with audit trail.
15:58
And audit trails, we can see in here. I will definitely push this. And there's three for you to see. But yeah, this is the thing that's.
16:12

Okay, so, yeah. Let me know what you think. Thank you.




 


Hey @Syed Wajahath, Here’s the plan to get you started:
Familiarize with the Codebase & Structure
Review the existing cyberxray-be repo.
Pay attention to Asset Management and the MVP Test Scheduling API.
This will help you understand our layering (API → service → repository → models) and conventions.
Checkout the existing database design and api structure
Coordinate with the Team
Connect with @Kaushal Khokhar regarding the Discovery of Assets API.
Review how manual asset management works today, since Discovery will extend or complement that flow.
Propose Implementation Approach
Based on your review, draft a clear proposal on how we should implement Discovery of Assets.
Include details like:
API endpoints needed
Data models/tables involved
How it ties into existing manual asset grouping and scheduling
Edge cases and validation requirements
Review & Approval
Share your proposal with the team for discussion and approval.
We’ll refine it together to ensure alignment with the broader architecture.
Start Building
Once approved, you’ll start implementing the Discovery of Assets feature.
Follow our standard practices: incremental PRs, good test coverage, structured logging, and clear documentation.
Additional Onboarding Steps
Get your local dev environment running (Postgres + FastAPI stack).
Provide a MVP de-risk plan so we can understand short-term vs long-term scope.
Look into how artifacts (S3/local) are saved, since discovery runs will eventually plug into the same orchestration model.
Start small: maybe first extend asset CRUD with a discovery-related flag, then move into more complex orchestration.



AYUSHI again explained me with this example 
Manual Asset 
- Hypertrends
    - ticketblox.com
    - Hypertrends.com
    - Xyz.hypertrends.com

Asset Disocer

Asset -> run discovery (reconx) -> summary json in s3

Asset grouping

Pentest Scheduling -> Vulnerability ExploitX
- run_id & group_id

Schedule (MVP) - one-time 11 sept 12 PM
Schedule Monthly - recurring - 11 th date of every month 12 PM

Asset Discovery 

Cyberbenchmark-artifacts

└───artifacts
    ├───123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000
    │   ├───reconx
    │   │   ├───amass
			123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000: ===== Amass Metadata =====
Tool      : amass
Target    : hypertrends.com
Status    : SUCCESS
Command   : amass enum -passive -d hypertrends.com
Timestamp : 2025-08-29T11:15:06.411723+00:00
==========================

----- STDOUT -----
hypertrends.com (FQDN) --> ns_record --> ns18.domaincontrol.com (FQDN)
hypertrends.com (FQDN) --> ns_record --> ns17.domaincontrol.com (FQDN)
hypertrends.com (FQDN) --> a_record --> 107.180.250.162 (IPAddress)
www.hypertrends.com (FQDN) --> cname_record --> hypertrends.com (FQDN)
107.180.224.0/19 (Netblock) --> contains --> 107.180.250.162 (IPAddress)
26347 (ASN) --> managed_by --> DREAMHOST-AS - New Dream Network, LLC (RIROrganization)
26347 (ASN) --> announces --> 107.180.224.0/19 (Netblock)
hub-dev.hypertrends.com (FQDN) --> cname_record --> cname.vercel-dns.com (FQDN)
demo2.hypertrends.com (FQDN) --> cname_record --> blox.hypertrends.com (FQDN)
test.st-dev.hypertrends.com (FQDN) --> cname_record --> cyberphisherapi-dev.hypertrends.com (FQDN)
caretabsapidev.hypertrends.com (FQDN) --> cname_record --> caretabsapi-dev.graypebble-aded1b4f.eastus.azurecontainerapps.io (FQDN)
hyperdailyapi-dev.hypertrends.com (FQDN) --> cname_record --> hyperdaily-dev.calmflower-1a360a68.eastus.azurecontainerapps.io (FQDN)
hypertrends.com (FQDN) --> mx_record --> hypertrends-com.mail.protection.outlook.com (FQDN)
onetesta-e5f651.st-dev.hypertrends.com (FQDN) --> a_record --> 54.227.129.229 (IPAddress)
onetesta-e5f651.st-dev.hypertrends.com (FQDN) --> a_record --> 98.86.243.161 (IPAddress)
54.224.0.0/14 (Netblock) --> contains --> 54.227.129.229 (IPAddress)
98.80.0.0/12 (Netblock) --> contains --> 98.86.243.161 (IPAddress)
0 (ASN) --> managed_by --> Not routed (RIROrganization)
0 (ASN) --> announces --> 98.80.0.0/12 (Netblock)
14618 (ASN) --> managed_by --> AMAZON-AES - Amazon.com, Inc. (RIROrganization)
14618 (ASN) --> announces --> 54.224.0.0/14 (Netblock)
ns18.domaincontrol.com (FQDN) --> a_record --> 173.201.76.9 (IPAddress)
ns18.domaincontrol.com (FQDN) --> aaaa_record --> 2603:5:22c0::9 (IPAddress)
173.201.64.0/20 (Netblock) --> contains --> 173.201.76.9 (IPAddress)
2603:5:22c0::/44 (Netblock) --> contains --> 2603:5:22c0::9 (IPAddress)
44273 (ASN) --> managed_by --> DYNAMICNET (RIROrganization)
44273 (ASN) --> announces --> 173.201.64.0/20 (Netblock)
44273 (ASN) --> managed_by --> GODADDY-DNS, DE (RIROrganization)
44273 (ASN) --> announces --> 2603:5:22c0::/44 (Netblock)
st-dev.hypertrends.com (FQDN) --> ns_record --> ns-1937.awsdns-50.co.uk (FQDN)
st-dev.hypertrends.com (FQDN) --> ns_record --> ns-607.awsdns-11.net (FQDN)
st-dev.hypertrends.com (FQDN) --> ns_record --> ns-1138.awsdns-14.org (FQDN)
st-dev.hypertrends.com (FQDN) --> ns_record --> ns-237.awsdns-29.com (FQDN)
ns-1937.awsdns-50.co.uk (FQDN) --> a_record --> 205.251.199.145 (IPAddress)
ns-1937.awsdns-50.co.uk (FQDN) --> aaaa_record --> 2600:9000:5307:9100::1 (IPAddress)
205.251.192.0/21 (Netblock) --> contains --> 205.251.199.145 (IPAddress)
2600:9000:5300::/45 (Netblock) --> contains --> 2600:9000:5307:9100::1 (IPAddress)
16509 (ASN) --> managed_by --> AMAZON-02 - Amazon.com, Inc. (RIROrganization)
16509 (ASN) --> announces --> 205.251.192.0/21 (Netblock)
16509 (ASN) --> announces --> 2600:9000:5300::/45 (Netblock)
ns-237.awsdns-29.com (FQDN) --> a_record --> 205.251.192.237 (IPAddress)
ns-237.awsdns-29.com (FQDN) --> aaaa_record --> 2600:9000:5300:ed00::1 (IPAddress)
205.251.192.0/21 (Netblock) --> contains --> 205.251.192.237 (IPAddress)
2600:9000:5300::/45 (Netblock) --> contains --> 2600:9000:5300:ed00::1 (IPAddress)
ns-607.awsdns-11.net (FQDN) --> a_record --> 205.251.194.95 (IPAddress)
ns-607.awsdns-11.net (FQDN) --> aaaa_record --> 2600:9000:5302:5f00::1 (IPAddress)
ns-1138.awsdns-14.org (FQDN) --> a_record --> 205.251.196.114 (IPAddress)
ns-1138.awsdns-14.org (FQDN) --> aaaa_record --> 2600:9000:5304:7200::1 (IPAddress)
205.251.192.0/21 (Netblock) --> contains --> 205.251.196.114 (IPAddress)
205.251.192.0/21 (Netblock) --> contains --> 205.251.194.95 (IPAddress)
2600:9000:5300::/45 (Netblock) --> contains --> 2600:9000:5304:7200::1 (IPAddress)
2600:9000:5300::/45 (Netblock) --> contains --> 2600:9000:5302:5f00::1 (IPAddress)

----- STDERR -----

The enumeration has finished


    │   │   ├───dnsrecon
			123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000: ===== Dnsrecon Metadata =====
Tool      : dnsrecon
Target    : hypertrends.com
Status    : SUCCESS
Command   : dnsrecon -t std -d hypertrends.com
Duration in seconds : 2.570213s
Start Time: 2025-09-09T16:34:53.993824+00:00
End Time  : 2025-09-09T16:34:56.564037+00:00
==========================

----- STDOUT -----
[*] std: Performing General Enumeration against: hypertrends.com...
[-] DNSSEC is not configured for hypertrends.com
[*] 	 SOA ns17.domaincontrol.com 97.74.108.9
[*] 	 SOA ns17.domaincontrol.com 2603:5:21c0::9
[*] 	 NS ns17.domaincontrol.com 97.74.108.9
[*] 	 NS ns17.domaincontrol.com 2603:5:21c0::9
[*] 	 NS ns18.domaincontrol.com 173.201.76.9
[*] 	 NS ns18.domaincontrol.com 2603:5:22c0::9
[*] 	 MX hypertrends-com.mail.protection.outlook.com 52.101.11.10
[*] 	 MX hypertrends-com.mail.protection.outlook.com 52.101.41.54
[*] 	 MX hypertrends-com.mail.protection.outlook.com 52.101.41.21
[*] 	 MX hypertrends-com.mail.protection.outlook.com 52.101.11.17
[*] 	 MX hypertrends-com.mail.protection.outlook.com 2a01:111:f403:c902::
[*] 	 MX hypertrends-com.mail.protection.outlook.com 2a01:111:f403:f802::3
[*] 	 MX hypertrends-com.mail.protection.outlook.com 2a01:111:f403:c902::1
[*] 	 MX hypertrends-com.mail.protection.outlook.com 2a01:111:f403:c946::
[*] 	 A hypertrends.com 107.180.250.162
[*] 	 TXT hypertrends.com v=verifydomain MS=2879536
[*] 	 TXT hypertrends.com v=verifydomain MS=6675252
[*] 	 TXT hypertrends.com 6ptam5n717f58dlcrn02qqjhgq
[*] 	 TXT hypertrends.com google-site-verification=0fpOew6554QtUkdyjUHuRTD8SwZIYH6DCODR_mzEE7E
[*] 	 TXT hypertrends.com v=spf1 include:spf.protection.outlook.com -all
[*] Enumerating SRV Records
[+] 	 SRV _sipfederationtls._tcp.hypertrends.com sipfed.online.lync.com 52.123.211.3 5061
[+] 1 Records Found

----- STDERR -----



    │   │   ├───nmap_port_scan
				123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000:===== Nmap_Port_Scan Metadata =====
Tool      : nmap_port_scan
Target    : hypertrends.com
Status    : SUCCESS
Command   : nmap -sV -p 22,80,443 hypertrends.com
Timestamp : 2025-09-01T06:50:51.466522+00:00
==========================

----- STDOUT -----
Starting Nmap 7.97 ( https://nmap.org ) at 2025-09-01 12:20 +0530
Nmap scan report for hypertrends.com (107.180.250.162)
Host is up (0.29s latency).
rDNS record for 107.180.250.162: dp-66d1e22ba7.dreamhostps.com

PORT    STATE SERVICE  VERSION
22/tcp  open  ssh      OpenSSH 8.9p1 Ubuntu 3ubuntu0.13 (Ubuntu Linux; protocol 2.0)
80/tcp  open  http     nginx
443/tcp open  ssl/http nginx
Service Info: OS: Linux; CPE: cpe:/o:linux:linux_kernel

Service detection performed. Please report any incorrect results at https://nmap.org/submit/ .
Nmap done: 1 IP address (1 host up) scanned in 31.96 seconds

----- STDERR -----


				
    │   │   ├───nmap_scan
			123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000:===== Nmap_Scan Metadata =====
Tool      : nmap_scan
Target    : hypertrends.com
Status    : SUCCESS
Command   : nmap -sV -Pn hypertrends.com
Duration in seconds : 295.334019s
Start Time: 2025-09-09T16:39:33.745413+00:00
End Time  : 2025-09-09T16:44:29.079432+00:00
==========================

----- STDOUT -----
Starting Nmap 7.97 ( https://nmap.org ) at 2025-09-09 22:09 +0530
Stats: 0:00:00 elapsed; 0 hosts completed (0 up), 0 undergoing Host Discovery
Parallel DNS resolution of 1 host. Timing: About 0.00% done
Nmap scan report for hypertrends.com (107.180.250.162)
Host is up (0.41s latency).
rDNS record for 107.180.250.162: dp-66d1e22ba7.dreamhostps.com
Not shown: 994 filtered tcp ports (no-response)
PORT      STATE  SERVICE   VERSION
22/tcp    open   ssh       OpenSSH 8.9p1 Ubuntu 3ubuntu0.13 (Ubuntu Linux; protocol 2.0)
80/tcp    open   http      nginx
81/tcp    closed hosts2-ns
443/tcp   open   ssl/http  nginx
60020/tcp closed unknown
60443/tcp closed unknown
Service Info: OS: Linux; CPE: cpe:/o:linux:linux_kernel

Service detection performed. Please report any incorrect results at https://nmap.org/submit/ .
Nmap done: 1 IP address (1 host up) scanned in 295.09 seconds

----- STDERR -----



    │   │   ├───nuclei
			123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000.1d1fB6E8:===== Nuclei Metadata =====
Tool      : nuclei
Target    : hypertrends.com
Status    : SUCCESS
Command   : nuclei -tags tech,wordpress,security -j -u hypertrends.com
Duration in seconds : 149.474662s
Start Time: 2025-09-09T16:59:39.509351+00:00
End Time  : 2025-09-09T17:02:08.984013+00:00
==========================

----- STDOUT -----
[[93mWRN[0m] Loading 23 unsigned templates for scan. Use with caution.
{"template":"http/technologies/graphql-detect.yaml","template-url":"https://cloud.projectdiscovery.io/public/graphql-detect","template-id":"graphql-detect","template-path":"/Users/ayushi/nuclei-templates/http/technologies/graphql-detect.yaml","info":{"name":"GraphQL API Detection","author":["nkxxkn","elsfa7110","ofjaaah","exceed"],"tags":["tech","graphql"],"severity":"info","metadata":{"max-request":124}},"type":"http","host":"hypertrends.com","port":"443","scheme":"https","url":"https://hypertrends.com","matched-at":"https://hypertrends.com/graphql","request":"POST /graphql HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: hypertrends.com\r\nUser-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_15_7) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/16.3 Mobile/15E148 Safari/604.1\r\nContent-Length: 67\r\nAccept: */*\r\nAccept-Language: en\r\nContent-Type: application/json\r\nAccept-Encoding: gzip\r\n\r\n{\"query\":\"query IntrospectionQuery{__schema {queryType { name }}}\"}","response":"HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r\nConnection: close\r\nTransfer-Encoding: chunked\r\nAccess-Control-Allow-Headers: Authorization, Content-Type\r\nAccess-Control-Allow-Origin: *\r\nAccess-Control-Max-Age: 600\r\nCache-Control: max-age=0\r\nContent-Security-Policy: default-src * 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval' data: blob:;\r\nContent-Type: application/json; charset=UTF-8\r\nDate: Tue, 09 Sep 2025 17:00:31 GMT\r\nExpires: Tue, 09 Sep 2025 17:00:31 GMT\r\nReferrer-Policy: no-referrer-when-downgrade\r\nServer: nginx\r\nStrict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000;\r\nVary: Accept-Encoding\r\nX-Content-Type-Options: nosniff\r\nX-Content-Type-Options: nosniff\r\nX-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN\r\nX-Graphql-Url: www.hypertrends.com/graphql\r\nX-Robots-Tag: noindex\r\nX-Rocket-Nginx-Serving-Static: BYPASS\r\nX-Xss-Protection: 1; mode=block\r\n\r\n{\"errors\":[{\"message\":\"The query contained __schema or __type, however GraphQL introspection is not allowed for public requests by default. Public introspection can be enabled under the WPGraphQL Settings.\",\"locations\":[{\"line\":1,\"column\":26}]}],\"extensions\":{\"debug\":[{\"type\":\"DEBUG_LOGS_INACTIVE\",\"message\":\"GraphQL Debug logging is not active. To see debug logs, GRAPHQL_DEBUG must be enabled.\"}]}}","meta":{"paths":"/graphql"},"ip":"107.180.250.162","timestamp":"2025-09-09T22:30:31.625794+05:30","curl-command":"curl -X 'POST' -d '{\"query\":\"query IntrospectionQuery{__schema {queryType { name }}}\"}' -H 'Accept: */*' -H 'Accept-Language: en' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -H 'User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_15_7) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/16.3 Mobile/15E148 Safari/604.1' 'https://hypertrends.com/graphql'","matcher-status":true}
{"template":"http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/advanced-custom-fields.yaml","template-url":"https://cloud.projectdiscovery.io/public/wordpress-advanced-custom-fields","template-id":"wordpress-advanced-custom-fields","template-path":"/Users/ayushi/nuclei-templates/http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/advanced-custom-fields.yaml","info":{"name":"Advanced Custom Fields (ACF®) Detection","author":["ricardomaia"],"tags":["tech","wordpress","wp-plugin","top-100","top-200"],"reference":["https://wordpress.org/plugins/advanced-custom-fields/"],"severity":"info","metadata":{"plugin_namespace":"advanced-custom-fields","wpscan":"https://wpscan.com/plugin/advanced-custom-fields"}},"extractor-name":"detected_version","type":"http","host":"hypertrends.com","port":"443","scheme":"https","url":"https://hypertrends.com","matched-at":"https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/advanced-custom-fields/readme.txt","extracted-results":["6.5.0"],"request":"GET /wp-content/plugins/advanced-custom-fields/readme.txt HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: hypertrends.com\r\nUser-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (SS; Linux x86_64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/134.0.0.0 Safari/537.36\r\nAccept: */*\r\nAccept-Language: en\r\nAccept-Encoding: gzip\r\n\r\n","response":"HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r\nConnection: close\r\nTransfer-Encoding: chunked\r\nContent-Security-Policy: default-src * 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval' data: blob:;\r\nContent-Type: text/plain\r\nDate: Tue, 09 Sep 2025 17:00:52 GMT\r\nEtag: W/\"689d9324-8609\"\r\nLast-Modified: Thu, 14 Aug 2025 07:41:24 GMT\r\nReferrer-Policy: no-referrer-when-downgrade\r\nServer: nginx\r\nStrict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000;\r\nVary: Accept-Encoding\r\nX-Content-Type-Options: nosniff\r\nX-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN\r\nX-Rocket-Nginx-Serving-Static: MISS\r\nX-Xss-Protection: 1; mode=block\r\n\r\n=== Advanced Custom Fields (ACF®) ===\nContributors: deliciousbrains, wpengine, elliotcondon, mattshaw, lgladdy, antpb, johnstonphilip, dalewilliams, polevaultweb\nTags: acf, fields, custom fields, meta, repeater\nRequires at least: 6.0\nTested up to: 6.8.2\nRequires PHP: 7.4\nStable tag: 6.5.0\nLicense: GPLv2 or later\nLicense URI: https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html\n\nACF helps customize WordPress with powerful, professional and intuitive fields. Proudly powering over 2 million sites, WordPress developers love ACF.\n\n== Description ==\n\nAdvanced Custom Fields (ACF®) turns WordPress sites into a fully-fledged content management system by giving you all the tools to do more with your data.\n\nUse the ACF plugin to take full control of your WordPress edit screens, custom field data, and more.\n\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9C6_roqghZQ\u0026rel=0\n\n**Add fields on demand.**\nThe ACF field builder allows you to quickly and easily add fields to WP edit screens with only the click of a few buttons! Whether it's something simple like adding an “author” field to a book review post, or something more complex like the structured data needs of an ecommerce site or marketplace, ACF makes adding fields to your content model easy.\n\n**Add them anywhere.**\nFields can be added all over WordPress including posts, pages, users, taxonomy terms, media, comments and even custom options pages! It couldn't be simpler to bring structure to the WordPress content creation experience.\n\n**Show them everywhere.**\nLoad and display your custom field values in any theme template file with our hassle-free, developer friendly functions! Whether you need to display a single value or generate content based on a more complex query, the out-of-the-box functions of ACF make templating a dream for developers of all levels of experience.\n\n**Any Content, Fast.**\nTurning WordPress into a true content management system is not just about custom fields. Creating new custom post types and taxonomies is an essential part of building custom WordPress sites. Registering post types and taxonomies is now possible right in the ACF UI, speeding up the content modeling workflow without the need to touch code or use another plugin.\n\n**Simply beautiful and intentionally accessible.**\nFor content creators and those tasked with data entry, the field user experience is as intuitive as they could desire while fitting neatly into the native WordPress experience. Accessibility standards are regularly reviewed and applied, ensuring ACF is able to empower as close to anyone as possible.\n\n**Documentation and developer guides.**\nOver 10 plus years of vibrant community contribution alongside an ongoing commitment to clear documentation means that you'll be able to find the guidance you need to build what you want.\n\n= Features =\n* Simple \u0026 Intuitive\n* Powerful Functions\n* Over 30 Field Types\n* Extensive Documentation\n* Millions of Users\n\n= Links =\n* [Website](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/?utm_source=wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=free%20plugin%20listing\u0026utm_campaign=ACF%20Website)\n* [Documentation](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/resources/?utm_source=wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=free%20plugin%20listing\u0026utm_campaign=ACF%20Website)\n* [Support](https://support.advancedcustomfields.com)\n* [ACF PRO](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/pro/?utm_source=wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=free%20plugin%20listing\u0026utm_campaign=ACF%20Pro%20Upgrade)\n\n= PRO =\nThe Advanced Custom Fields plugin is also available in a professional version which includes more fields, more functionality, and more flexibility. The ACF PRO plugin features:\n\n* The [Repeater Field](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/resources/repeater/?utm_source=wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=free%20plugin%20listing\u0026utm_campaign=ACF%20Pro%20Upgrade) allows you to create a set of sub fields which can be repeated again, and again, and again.\n* [ACF Blocks](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/resources/blocks/?utm_source=wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=free%20plugin%20listing\u0026utm_campaign=ACF%20Pro%20Upgrade), a powerful PHP-based framework for developing custom block types for the WordPress Block Editor (aka Gutenberg).\n* Define, create, and manage content with the [Flexible Content Field](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/resources/flexible-content/?utm_source=wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=free%20plugin%20listing\u0026utm_campaign=ACF%20Pro%20Upgrade), which provides for multiple layout and sub field options.\n* Use the [Options Page](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/resources/options-page/?utm_source=wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=free%20plugin%20listing\u0026utm_campaign=ACF%20Pro%20Upgrade) feature to add custom admin pages to edit ACF fields.\n* Build fully customisable image galleries with the [Gallery Field](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/resources/gallery/?utm_source=wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=free%20plugin%20listing\u0026utm_campaign=ACF%20Pro%20Upgrade).\n* Unlock a more efficient workflow for managing field settings by reusing existing fields and field groups on demand with the [Clone Field](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/resources/clone/?utm_source=wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=free%20plugin%20listing\u0026utm_campaign=ACF%20Pro%20Upgrade).\n\n[Upgrade to ACF PRO](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/pro/?utm_source=wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=free%20plugin%20listing\u0026utm_campaign=ACF%20Pro%20Upgrade)\n\n== Installation ==\n\nFrom your WordPress dashboard\n\n1. **Visit** Plugins \u003e Add New\n2. **Search** for \"Advanced Custom Fields\" or “ACF”\n3. **Install and Activate** Advanced Custom Fields from your Plugins page\n4. **Click** on the new menu item \"ACF\" and create your first custom field group, or register a custom post type or taxonomy.\n5. **Read** the documentation to [get started](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/resources/getting-started-with-acf/?utm_source=wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=free%20plugin%20listing\u0026utm_campaign=ACF%20Website)\n\n\n== Frequently Asked Questions ==\n\n= What kind of support do you provide? =\n\n**Support Forums.** Our ACF Community Forums provide a great resource for searching and finding previously answered and asked support questions. You may create a new thread on these forums, however, it is not guaranteed that you will receive an answer from our support team. This is more of an area for ACF developers to talk to one another, post ideas, plugins and provide basic help. [View the Support Forum](https://support.advancedcustomfields.com/)\n\n\n== Screenshots ==\n\n1. Simple \u0026 Intuitive\n\n2. Made for Developers\n\n3. All About Fields\n\n4. Registering Custom Post Types\n\n5. Registering Taxonomies\n\n\n== Changelog ==\n\n= 6.5.0 =\n*Release Date 11th August 2025*\n\n* New - Flexible Content layouts can now be renamed in the post editor, giving content editors better clarity when managing layouts\n* New - Flexible Content layouts can now be disabled, preventing them from rendering on the frontend without needing to delete their data\n* New - Flexible Content layouts can now be collapsed and expanded in bulk for faster content editing\n* New - Editing a Flexible Content layout now highlights the layout being edited, making it easier to identify\n* New - The Date and Date Time Picker fields can now be configured to default to the current date\n* Fix - Custom Icon Picker tabs now work correctly when used inside an ACF Block\n* Fix - Duplicating a Field Group no longer causes a fatal error when using Russian translations\n* Fix - ACF classes no longer use dynamic class properties, improving compatibility with PHP 8.2+\n* Fix - ACF PRO no longer shows an update available immediately after updating to the latest version\n* Fix - Field group metabox collapse and expand buttons are no longer misaligned in the post editor\n* Fix - The ACF Site Health section no longer causes a PHP warning when field group location rules are incomplete\n* Security - HTML is now escaped from field validation errors and tooltips\n\n= 6.4.3 =\n*Release Date 22nd July 2025*\n\n* Security - Unsafe HTML in field group labels is now correctly escaped for conditionally loaded field groups, resolving a JS execution vulnerability in the classic editor\n* Security - HTML is now escaped from field group labels when output in the ACF admin\n* Security - Bidirectional and Conditional Logic Select2 elements no longer render HTML in field labels or post titles\n* Security - The `acf.escHtml` function now uses the third party DOMPurify library to ensure all unsafe HTML is removed. A new `esc_html_dompurify_config` JS filter can be used to modify the default behaviour\n* Security - Post titles are now correctly escaped whenever they are output by ACF code. Thanks to Shogo Kumamaru of LAC Co., Ltd. for the responsible disclosure\n* Security - An admin notice is now displayed when version 3 of the Select2 library is used, as it has now been deprecated in favor of version 4\n\n= 6.4.2 =\n*Release Date 20th May 2025*\n\n* New - In ACF PRO, fields can now be added to WooCommerce Subscriptions when using HPOS\n* Security - Changing a field type no longer enables the \"Allow Access to Value in Editor UI\" setting\n* Fix - Paginated Repeater fields no longer save duplicate values when saving to a WooCommerce Order with HPOS disabled\n* Fix - Blocks registered via acf_register_block_type() with a `parent` value of `null` no longer fail to register\n\n= 6.4.1 =\n*Release Date 8th May 2025*\n\n* New - Select fields can now be configured to allow creating new options when editing the field's value (requires the \"Stylized UI\" and \"Multiple\" field settings to be enabled)\n* Enhancement - The \"Escaped HTML\" warning notice [introduced in ACF 6.2.5](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-2-5-security-release/) is now disabled by default\n* Enhancement - The Icon Picker field now supports supplying an array of icons to a custom tab via a new `acf/fields/icon_picker/{tab_name}/icons` filter\n* Fix - ACF Blocks are now forced into preview mode when editing a synced pattern\n* Fix - The free ACF plugin once again works with the Classic Widgets plugin and the legacy ACF Options Page addon\n* Fix - ACF no longer causes an infinite loop in bbPress when editing replies\n\n= 6.4.0.1 =\n*Release Date 8th April 2025*\n\n* Fix - Calling `acf_get_reference()` with an invalid field name no longer causes a fatal error\n\n= 6.4.0 =\n*Release Date 7th April 2025*\n\n* New - In ACF PRO, fields can now be added to WooCommerce orders when using HPOS\n* Enhancement - ACF now uses Composer to autoload some classes\n* Fix - Repeater pagination now works when the Repeater is inside a Group field\n* Fix - Various translations are no longer called before the WordPress `init` action hook\n* Security - Link field no longer has a minor local XSS vulnerability\n* i18n - Various British English translation strings no longer have a quoting issue breaking links\n* i18n - Added Dutch (formal) translations (props @toineenzo)\n\n= 6.3.12 =\n*Release Date 21st January 2025*\n\n* Enhancement - Error messages that occur when field validation fails due an insufficient security nonce now have additional context\n* Fix - Duplicated ACF blocks no longer lose their field values after the initial save when block preloading is enabled\n* Fix - ACF Blocks containing complex field types now behave correctly when React StrictMode is enabled\n\n= 6.3.11 =\n*Release Date 12th November 2024*\n\n* Enhancement - Field Group keys are now copyable on click\n* Fix - Repeater tables with fields hidden by conditional logic now render correctly\n* Fix - ACF Blocks now behave correctly in React StrictMode\n* Fix - Edit mode is no longer available to ACF Blocks with an WordPress Block API version of 3 as field editing is not supported in the iframe\n\n= 6.3.10.2 =\n*Release Date 29th October 2024*\n*Free Only Release*\n\n* Fix - ACF Free no longer causes a fatal error when any unsupported legacy ACF addons are active\n\n= 6.3.10.1 =\n*Release Date 29th October 2024*\n*Free Only Release*\n\n* Fix - ACF Free no longer causes a fatal error when WPML is active\n\n= 6.3.10 =\n*Release Date 29th October 2024*\n\n* Security - Setting a metabox callback for custom post types and taxonomies now requires being an admin, or super admin for multisite installs\n* Security - Field specific ACF nonces are now prefixed, resolving an issue where third party nonces could be treated as valid for AJAX calls\n* Enhancement - A new “Close and Add Field” option is now available when editing a field group, inserting a new field inline after the field being edited\n* Enhancement - ACF and ACF PRO now share the same plugin updater for improved reliability and performance\n* Fix - Exporting post types and taxonomies containing metabox callbacks now correctly exports the user defined callback\n\n= 6.3.9 =\n*Release Date 15th October 2024*\n\n* Security - Editing an ACF Field in the Field Group editor can no longer execute a stored XSS vulnerability. Thanks to Duc Luong Tran (janlele91) from Viettel Cyber Security for the responsible disclosure\n* Security - Post Type and Taxonomy metabox callbacks no longer have access to any superglobal values, hardening the original fix from 6.3.8 further\n* Fix - ACF fields now correctly validate when used in the block editor and attached to the sidebar\n\n= 6.3.8 =\n*Release Date 7th October 2024*\n\n* Security - ACF defined Post Type and Taxonomy metabox callbacks no longer have access to $_POST data. (Thanks to the Automattic Security Team for the disclosure)\n\n= 6.3.7 =\n*Release Date 2nd October 2024*\n\n* Security - ACF Free now uses its own update mechanism from WP Engine servers\n\n= 6.3.6 =\n*Release Date 28th August 2024*\n\n* Security - Newly added fields now have to be explicitly set to allow access in the content editor (when using the ACF shortcode or Block Bindings) to increase the security around field permissions. [See the release notes for more details](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-3-6/#field-value-access-editor)\n* Security Fix - Field labels are now correctly escaped when rendered in the Field Group editor, to prevent a potential XSS issue. Thanks to Ryo Sotoyama of Mitsui Bussan Secure Directions, Inc. for the responsible disclosure\n* Fix - Validation and Block AJAX requests nonces will no longer be overridden by third party plugins\n* Fix - Detection of third party select2 libraries will now default to v4 rather than v3\n* Fix - Block previews will now display an error if the render template PHP file is not found\n\n= 6.3.5 =\n*Release Date 1st August 2024*\n\n* Fix - The ACF Shortcode now correctly outputs a comma separated list of values for arrays\n* Fix - ACF Blocks rendered in auto mode now correctly re-render their previews after editing fields\n* Fix - ACF Block validation no longer raises required validation messages if HTML will automatically select the first value when rendered\n* Fix - ACF Block validation no longer raises required validation messages if a default value will be rendered as the field value\n* Fix - ACF Block validation no longer raises required validation messages for fields hidden by conditional logic when adding a new block\n\n= 6.3.4 =\n*Release Date 18th July 2024*\n\n* Security Fix - The ACF shortcode now prevents access to fields from different private posts by default. View the [release notes](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-3-4) for more information\n* Fix - Users without the `edit_posts` capability but with custom capabilities for a editing a custom post type, can now correctly load field groups loaded via conditional location rules\n* Fix - Block validation no longer validates a field’s sub fields on page load, only on edit. This resolves inconsistent validation errors on page load or when first adding a block\n* Fix - Deactivating an ACF PRO license will now remove the license key even if the server call fails\n* Fix - Field types returning objects no longer cause PHP warnings and errors when output via `the_field`, `the_sub_field` or the ACF shortcode, or when retrieved by a `get_` function with the escape html parameter set\n* Fix - Server side errors during block rendering now gracefully displays an error to the editor\n\n= 6.3.3 =\n*Release Date 27th June 2024*\n\n* Enhancement - All dashicons are now available to the icon picker field type\n* Fix - The True/False field now correctly shows it’s description message beside the switch when using the Stylized UI setting\n* Fix - Conditional logic values now correctly load options when loaded over AJAX\n* Fix - ACF PRO will no longer trigger license validation calls when loading a front-end page\n* i18n - Fixed an untranslatable string on Option Page previews\n\n= 6.3.2.1 =\n*Release Date 24th June 2024*\n*PRO Only Release*\n\n* Fix - ACF Blocks no longer trigger a JavaScript error when fetched via AJAX\n\n= 6.3.2 =\n*Release Date 24th June 2024*\n\n* Security Fix - ACF now generates different nonces for each AJAX-enabled field, preventing subscribers or front-end form users from querying other field results\n* Security Fix - ACF now correctly verifies permissions for certain editor only actions, preventing subscribers performing those actions\n* Security Fix - Deprecated a legacy private internal field type (output) to prevent it being able to output unsafe HTML\n* Security Fix - Improved handling of some SQL filters and other internal functions to ensure output is always correctly escaped\n* Security Fix - ACF now includes blank index.php files in all folders to prevent directory listing of ACF plugin folders for incorrectly configured web servers\n\n= 6.3.1.2 =\n*Release Date 6th June 2024*\n*PRO Only Release*\n\n* Fix - ACF Blocks in widget areas no longer cause a fatal error when no context is available\n* Fix - ACF Blocks with no fields assigned no longer show a gap in the sidebar where the form would render\n\n= 6.3.1.1 =\n*Release Date 6th June 2024*\n*PRO Only Release*\n\n* Fix - Repeater and Flexible Content fields no longer error when duplicating or removing rows containing Icon Picker subfields\n* Fix - ACF Blocks containing Flexible Content fields now correctly load their edit form\n* Fix - ACF Blocks no longer have a race condition where the data store is not initialized when read\n* Fix - ACF Blocks no longer trigger a JS error for blocks without fields and with an empty no-fields message\n* Fix - ACF Block preloading now works correctly for fields consuming custom block context\n* Fix - ACF Block JavaScript debug messages now correctly appear when SCRIPT_DEBUG is true\n\n= 6.3.1 =\n*Release Date 4th June 2024*\n\n* Enhancement - Options Pages registered in the UI can now be duplicated\n* Fix - ACF Block validation now correctly validates Repeater, Group, and Flexible Content fields\n* Fix - ACF Block validation now correctly validates when a field is using a non-default return type\n* Fix - Fields moved between field groups now correctly updates both JSON files\n* Fix - Icon Picker fields now render correctly when using left-aligned labels\n* Fix - Icon Picker fields no longer renders tabs if only one tab is selected for display\n* Fix - Icon Picker fields no longer crash the post editor if no icon picker tabs are selected for displayed\n* Fix - True/False field now better handles longer On/Off labels\n* Fix - Select2 results loaded by AJAX for multi-select Taxonomy fields no longer double encode HTML entities\n\n= 6.3.0.1 =\n*Release Date 22nd May 2024*\n\n* Fix - A possible fatal error no longer occurs in the new site health functionality for ACF PRO users\n* Fix - A possible undefined index error no longer occurs in ACF Blocks for ACF PRO users\n\n= 6.3.0 =\n*Release Date 22nd May 2024*\n\n* New - ACF now requires WordPress version 6.0 or newer, and PHP 7.4 or newer.\n* New - ACF Blocks now support validation rules for fields. View the [release notes](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-3-0-released) for more information\n* New - ACF Blocks now supports storing field data in the postmeta table rather than in the post content\n* New - Conditional logic rules for fields now support selecting specific values for post objects, page links, taxonomies, relationships and users rather than having to enter the ID\n* New - New Icon Picker field type for ACF and ACF PRO\n* New - Icon selection for a custom post type menu icon\n* New - Icon selection for an options page menu icon\n* New - ACF now surfaces debug and status information in the WordPress Site Health area\n* New - The escaped html notice can now be permanently dismissed\n* Enhancement - Tab field now supports a `selected` attribute to specify which should be selected by default, and support class attributes\n* Fix - Block Preloading now works reliably in WordPress 6.5 or newer\n* Fix - Select2 results loaded by AJAX for post object fields no longer double encode HTML entities\n* Fix - Custom post types registered with ACF will now have custom field support enabled by default to better support revisions\n* Fix - The first preview after publishing a post in the classic editor now displays ACF fields correctly\n* Fix - ACF fields and Flexible Content layouts are now correctly positioned while dragging\n* Fix - Copying the title of a field inside a Flexible Content layout no longer adds whitespace to the copied value\n* Fix - Flexible Content layout names are no longer converted to lowercase when edited\n* Fix - ACF Blocks with attributes without a default now correctly register\n* Fix - User fields no longer trigger a 404 when loading results if the nonce generated only contains numbers\n* Fix - Description fields for ACF items now support being solely numeric characters\n* Fix - The field group header no longer appears above the WordPress admin menu on small screens\n* Fix - The `acf/json/save_file_name` filter now correctly applies when deleting JSON files\n* i18n - All errors raised during ACF PRO license or update checks are now translatable\n* Other - The ACF Shortcode is now disabled by default for new installations of ACF as discussed in the [ACF 6.2.7 release notes](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-2-7-security-release/#security-and-the-acf-shortcode)\n\n= 6.2.10 =\n*Release Date 15th May 2024*\n\n* Security Fix - ACF Blocks no longer allow render templates, or render or asset callbacks to be overridden in the block's attributes. For full information, please read [the release blog post](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-pro-6-2-10-security-release/)\n\n= 6.2.9 =\n*Release Date 8th April 2024*\n\n* Enhancement - The Select2 escapeMarkup function can now be overridden when initializing a custom Select2\n* Fix - “Hide on Screen” settings are now correctly applied when using conditionally loaded field groups\n* Fix - Field names are no longer converted to lowercase when editing the name\n* Fix - Field group titles will no longer convert HTML entities into their encoded form\n\n= 6.2.8 =\n*Release Date 2nd April 2024*\n\n* New - Support for the Block Bindings API in WordPress 6.5 with a new `acf/field` source. For more information on how to use this, please read [the release blog post](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-2-8)\n* New - Support for performance improvements for translations in WordPress 6.5\n* Enhancement - A new JS filter, `select2_escape_markup` now allows fields to customize select2's HTML escaping behavior\n* Fix - Options pages can no longer set to have a parent of themselves\n* Fix - ACF PRO license activations on multisite subsite installs will now use the correct site URL\n* Fix - ACF PRO installed on multisite installs will no longer try to check for updates resulting in 404 errors when the updates page is not visible\n* Fix - ACF JSON no longer produces warnings on Windows servers when no ACF JSON folder is found\n* Fix - Field and layout names can now contain valid non-ASCII characters\n* Other - ACF PRO now requires a valid license to be activated in order to use PRO features. [Learn more](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/resources/license-activations/)\n\n= 6.2.7 =\n*Release Date 27th February 2024*\n\n* Security Fix - `the_field` now escapes potentially unsafe HTML as notified since ACF 6.2.5. For full information, please read [the release blog post](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-2-7-security-release/)\n* Security Fix - Field and Layout names are now enforced to alphanumeric characters, resolving a potential XSS issue\n* Security Fix - The default render template for select2 fields no longer allows HTML to be rendered resolving a potential XSS issue\n* Security Enhancement - A `acf/shortcode/prevent_access` filter is now available to limit what data the ACF shortcode is allowed to access\n* Security Enhancement - i18n translated strings are now escaped on output\n* Enhancement - ACF now universally uses WordPress file system functions rather than native PHP functions\n\n= 6.2.6.1 =\n*Release Date 7th February 2024*\n\n* Fix - Fatal JS error no longer occurs when editing fields in the classic editor when Yoast or other plugins which load block editor components are installed\n* Fix - Using `$escape_html` on get functions for array returning field types no longer produces an Array to string conversion error\n\n= 6.2.6 =\n*Release Date 6th February 2024*\n\n* Enhancement - The `get_field()` and other `get_` functions now support an `escape_html` parameter which return an HTML safe field value\n* Enhancement - The URL field will be now escaped with `esc_url` rather than `wp_kses_post` when returning an HTML safe value\n* Fix - ACF fields will now correctly save into the WordPress created revision resolving issues with previews of drafts on WordPress 6.4 or newer\n* Fix - Multisite subsites will now correctly be activated by the main site where the ACF PRO license allows, hiding the updates page on those subsites\n* Fix - Field types in which the `required` property would have no effect (such as the tab, or accordion) will no longer show the option\n* Fix - Duplicating a field group now maintains the current page of field groups being displayed\n* Fix - Fields in ACF Blocks in edit mode in hybrid themes will now use ACF's styling, rather than some attributes being overridden by the theme\n* Fix - Text in some admin notices will no longer overlap the dismiss button\n* Fix - The word `link` is now prohibited from being used as a CPT name to avoid a WordPress core conflict\n* Fix - Flexible content layouts can no longer be duplicated over their maximum count limit\n* Fix - All ACF notifications shown outside of ACF's admin screens are now prefixed with the plugin name\n* Fix - ACF no longer checks if a polyfill is needed for \u003cPHP7 and the polyfill has been removed\n\n= 6.2.5 =\n*Release Date 16th January 2024*\n\n* Security Fix - The ACF shortcode will now run all output through `wp_kses`, escaping unsafe HTML. This may be a breaking change to your site but is required for security, a message will be shown in WordPress admin if you are affected. Please see the [blog post for this release for more information.](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-2-5-security-release/) Thanks to Francesco Carlucci via Wordfence for the responsible disclosure\n* Security - ACF now warns via an admin message, when upcoming changes to `the_field` and `the_sub_field` may require theme changes to your site to avoid stripping unsafe HTML. Please see the [blog post for this release for more information](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-2-5-security-release/)\n* Security - Users may opt in to automatically escaping unsafe HTML via a new filter `acf/the_field/escape_html_optin` when using `the_field` and `the_sub_field` before this becomes default in an upcoming ACF release.\n\n= 6.2.4 =\n*Release Date 28th November 2023*\n\n* Fix - Custom Post Types labels now match the WordPress 6.4 behavior for \"Add New\" labels\n* Fix - When exporting both post types and taxonomies as PHP, taxonomies will now appear before post types, matching the order ACF registers them. This resolves issues where taxonomy slugs will not work in post type permalinks\n* Fix - Advanced Settings for Taxonomies, Post Types or Options Pages now display with the correct top padding when toggled on\n* Fix - When a parent option page is set to \"Redirect to Child Page\", the child page will now correctly show it's parent setting\n* Fix - When activated as a must-use plugin, the ACF PRO \"Updates\" page is now visible. Use the existing `show_updates` setting to hide\n* Fix - When activated as a must-use plugin, ACF PRO licenses defined in code will now correctly activate sites\n* Fix - When `show_updates` is set or filtered to false, ACF PRO will now automatically still activate defined licenses\n* i18n - Maintenance and internal upstream messages from the ACF PRO activation server are now translatable\n\n= 6.2.3 =\n*Release Date 15th November 2023*\n\n* [View Release Post](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-2-3/)\n* New - An ACF Blocks specific JSON schema for block.json is now available on [GitHub](https://github.com/AdvancedCustomFields/schemas)\n* New - Flexible Content fields now show the layout name in the layout's header bar and supports click-to-copy\n* New - Duplicating Flexible Content layouts now appends \"Copy\" to their name and label, matching the behavior of field group duplication\n* Enhancement - ACF PRO will now automatically attempt license reactivation when the site URL changes, e.g. after a site migration. This resolves issues where updates may fail\n* Enhancement - Presentation setting for \"High\" placement of the Field Group made clear that it's not supported in the block editor\n* Fix - `acf_format_date` now ensures the date parameter is valid to prevent fatal errors if other data types are passed in\n* Fix - CPTs with a custom icon URL now display the posts icon in the location column of the field groups screen\n* Fix - The ACF JSON import form will now disable on first submit resolving an issue where you could submit the form twice\n* Fix - The \"Add Row\" button in the Flexible Content field now displays correctly when using nested layouts\n* Fix - Warning and Error notices no longer flicker on ACF admin pages load\n* i18n - ACF PRO license activation success and error messages are now translatable\n\n= 6.2.2 =\n*Release Date 25th October 2023*\n\n* Enhancement - ACF Blocks which have not been initialized by the editor will now render correctly\n* Enhancement - Added a new `acf/filesize` filter to allow third party media plugins to bypass ACF calling `filesize()` on attachments with uncached file sizes, which may result in a remote download if offloaded\n* Enhancement - ACF PRO license status and subscription expiry dates are now displayed on the “Updates” page\n* Fix - Product pages for WooCommerce version 8.2 or newer now correctly support field group location rules\n* Fix - Relationship field items can now be removed on mobile devices\n* Fix - Color picker fields no longer autocomplete immediately after typing 3 valid hex characters\n* Fix - Field settings no longer appear misaligned when the viewport is something other than 100%\n* Fix - Select fields without an aria-label no longer throw a warning\n* Fix - CPTs and Taxonomies with a custom text domain now export correctly when using PHP export\n\n= 6.2.1.1 =\n*Release Date 8th September 2023*\n\n* Fix - Editing a field group no longer generates an error when UI options pages are disabled\n\n= 6.2.1 =\n*Release Date 7th September 2023*\n\n* New - Options Pages created in the admin UI can now be assigned as child pages for any top-level menu item\n* New - Added a \"Title Placeholder\" setting to ACF Post Types which filters the \"Add title\" text when editing posts\n* Enhancement - ACF PRO will now warn when it can't update due to PHP version incompatibilities\n* Enhancement - ACF PRO will now work correctly with WordPress automatic updates\n* Enhancement - The internal ACF Blocks template attribute parser function `parseNodeAttr` can now be shortcut with the new `acf_blocks_parse_node_attr` filter.\n* Enhancement - Removed legacy code for supporting WordPress versions under 5.8\n* Fix - The \"Menu Position\" setting is no longer hidden for child options pages\n* Fix - The tabs for the \"Advanced\" settings in Post Types and Taxonomies are now rendered inside a wrapper div\n* Fix - Options pages will no longer display as a child page in the list view when set to a top level page after previously being a child\n* Fix - Conflict with Elementor CSS breaking the ACF PRO banner\n* Fix - Errors generated during the block editor's `savePost` function will no longer be caught and ignored by ACF\n\n= 6.2.0 =\n*Release Date 9th August 2023*\n\n* [View Release Post](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-2-0-released/)\n* New - ACF now requires WordPress version 5.8 or newer, and PHP 7.0 or newer. View the [release post](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-2-0-released/#version-requirements) for more information\n* New - Bidirectional Relationships now supported for Relationship, Post Object, User and Taxonomy fields. View the [release post](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-2-0-released/#bidirectional-relationships) for more information\n* New - [Options Pages](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/resources/options-page/) can now be registered and managed by the admin UI in ACF PRO\n* New - Link to the [product feedback board](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/feedback/) added to the plugin footer\n* Enhancement - ACF JSON now supports multiple save locations (props Freddy Leitner)\n* Enhancement - ACF Post Types and Taxonomies can now be duplicated\n* Enhancement - The filename for JSON files can now be customized with the `acf/json/save_file_name` filter\n* Fix - REST updates of fields with choices containing integer or mixed keys now behave correctly\n* Fix - Using the `block_type_metadata_settings` PHP filter to add usesContext values no longer breaks ACF blocks\n* Fix - Notice to import post types/taxonomies from CPTUI no longer flashes on page load\n* Fix - Various buttons for fields in blocks now display correctly\n* Fix - The settings for the DateTime field are no longer cut off when nested in several fields in the field group editor\n* Fix - The newline added to the end of JSON files will now use `PHP_EOL` to detect the correct newline character with a filter `acf/json/eof_newline` to alter it.\n* i18n - Updated French and Portuguese translations (Thanks to pedro-mendonca and maximebj)\n\n[View the full changelog](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/changelog/)\n\n== Upgrade Notice ==","meta":{"last_version":"6.4.3"},"ip":"107.180.250.162","timestamp":"2025-09-09T22:30:53.064503+05:30","curl-command":"curl -X 'GET' -d '' -H 'Accept: */*' -H 'Accept-Language: en' -H 'User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (SS; Linux x86_64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/134.0.0.0 Safari/537.36' 'https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/advanced-custom-fields/readme.txt'","matcher-status":true}
{"template":"http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/akismet.yaml","template-url":"https://cloud.projectdiscovery.io/public/wordpress-akismet","template-id":"wordpress-akismet","template-path":"/Users/ayushi/nuclei-templates/http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/akismet.yaml","info":{"name":"Akismet Anti-spam' Spam Protection Detection","author":["ricardomaia"],"tags":["tech","wordpress","wp-plugin","top-100","top-200"],"reference":["https://wordpress.org/plugins/akismet/"],"severity":"info","metadata":{"plugin_namespace":"akismet","wpscan":"https://wpscan.com/plugin/akismet"}},"extractor-name":"detected_version","type":"http","host":"hypertrends.com","port":"443","scheme":"https","url":"https://hypertrends.com","matched-at":"https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/akismet/readme.txt","extracted-results":["5.5"],"request":"GET /wp-content/plugins/akismet/readme.txt HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: hypertrends.com\r\nUser-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10.15; rv:109.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/117.0\r\nAccept: */*\r\nAccept-Language: en\r\nAccept-Encoding: gzip\r\n\r\n","response":"HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r\nConnection: close\r\nTransfer-Encoding: chunked\r\nContent-Security-Policy: default-src * 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval' data: blob:;\r\nContent-Type: text/plain\r\nDate: Tue, 09 Sep 2025 17:00:53 GMT\r\nEtag: W/\"689196bb-16ad\"\r\nLast-Modified: Tue, 05 Aug 2025 05:29:31 GMT\r\nReferrer-Policy: no-referrer-when-downgrade\r\nServer: nginx\r\nStrict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000;\r\nVary: Accept-Encoding\r\nX-Content-Type-Options: nosniff\r\nX-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN\r\nX-Rocket-Nginx-Serving-Static: MISS\r\nX-Xss-Protection: 1; mode=block\r\n\r\n=== Akismet Anti-spam: Spam Protection ===\nContributors: matt, ryan, andy, mdawaffe, tellyworth, josephscott, lessbloat, eoigal, cfinke, automattic, jgs, procifer, stephdau, kbrownkd, bluefuton, derekspringer, lschuyler, andyperdomo, akismetantispam\nTags: comments, spam, antispam, anti-spam, contact form\nRequires at least: 5.8\nTested up to: 6.8.1\nStable tag: 5.5\nLicense: GPLv2 or later\n\nThe best anti-spam protection to block spam comments and spam in a contact form. The most trusted antispam solution for WordPress and WooCommerce.\n\n== Description ==\n\nThe best anti-spam protection to block spam comments and spam in a contact form. The most trusted antispam solution for WordPress and WooCommerce.\n\nAkismet checks your comments and contact form submissions against our global database of spam to prevent your site from publishing malicious content. You can review the comment spam it catches on your blog's \"Comments\" admin screen.\n\nMajor features in Akismet include:\n\n* Automatically checks all comments and filters out the ones that look like spam.\n* Each comment has a status history, so you can easily see which comments were caught or cleared by Akismet and which were spammed or unspammed by a moderator.\n* URLs are shown in the comment body to reveal hidden or misleading links.\n* Moderators can see the number of approved comments for each user.\n* A discard feature that outright blocks the worst spam, saving you disk space and speeding up your site.\n\nPS: You'll be prompted to get an Akismet.com API key to use it, once activated. Keys are free for personal blogs; paid subscriptions are available for businesses and commercial sites.\n\n== Installation ==\n\nUpload the Akismet plugin to your blog, activate it, and then enter your Akismet.com API key.\n\n1, 2, 3: You're done!\n\n== Changelog ==\n\n= 5.5 =\n*Release Date - 15 July 2025*\n\n* Enable webhooks so that Akismet can process comments asynchronously to detect more types of spam.\n* Only include the Akismet widget CSS when the Akismet widget is present\n* Improve contrast/readability for certain UI elements\n\n= 5.4 =\n*Release Date - 7 May 2025*\n\n* The stats pages now use the user's locale instead of the site's locale if they're different.\n* Adds a 'Compatible plugins' section that will show installed and active plugins that are compatible with Akismet.\n* Akismet now requires PHP version 7.2 or above.\n\n= 5.3.7 =\n*Release Date - 14 February 2025*\n\n* Simplify the logic used during a comment-check request to compare comments.\n\n= 5.3.6 =\n*Release Date - 4 February 2025*\n\n* Improve the utility of submit-spam and submit-ham requests.\n* Modernize styles for the Akismet classic widget.\n\n= 5.3.5 =\n*Release Date - 18 November 2024*\n\n* Address compatibility issues with \u003c PHP 7.3 in v5.3.4 release.\n\n= 5.3.4 =\n*Release Date - 18 November 2024*\n\n* Improve activation notice on Comments for users who haven't set up their API key yet.\n* Improve notice about commercial site status.\n\n= 5.3.3 =\n*Release Date - 10 July 2024*\n\n* Make setup step clearer for new users.\n* Remove the stats section from the configuration page if the site has been revoked from the key.\n* Skip the Akismet comment check when the comment matches something in the disallowed list.\n* Prompt users on legacy plans to contact Akismet support for upgrades.\n\n= 5.3.2 =\n*Release Date - 21 March 2024*\n\n* Improve the empty state shown to new users when no spam has been caught yet.\n* Update the message shown to users without a current subscription.\n* Add foundations for future webhook support.\n\n= 5.3.1 =\n*Release Date - 17 January 2024*\n\n* Make the plugin more resilient when asset files are missing (as seen in WordPress Playground).\n* Add a link to the 'Account overview' page on akismet.com.\n* Fix a minor error that occurs when another plugin removes all comment actions from the dashboard.\n* Add the akismet_request_args filter to allow request args in Akismet API requests to be filtered.\n* Fix a bug that causes some contact forms to include unnecessary data in the comment_content parameter.\n\n= 5.3 =\n*Release Date - 14 September 2023*\n\n* Improve display of user notices.\n* Add stylesheets for RTL languages.\n* Remove initial disabled state from 'Save changes' button.\n* Improve accessibility of API key entry form.\n* Add new filter hooks for Fluent Forms.\n* Fix issue with PHP 8.1 compatibility.\n\n= 5.2 =\n*Release Date - 21 June 2023*\n\n* Visual refresh of Akismet stats.\n* Improve PHP 8.1 compatibility.\n* Improve appearance of plugin to match updated stats.\n* Change minimum supported PHP version to 5.6 to match WordPress.\n* Drop IE11 support and update minimum WordPress version to 5.8 (where IE11 support was removed from WP Core).\n\n= 5.1 =\n*Release Date - 20 March 2023*\n\n* Removed unnecessary limit notices from admin page.\n* Improved spam detection by including post taxonomies in the comment-check call.\n* Removed API keys from stats iframes to avoid possible inadvertent exposure.\n\n= 5.0.2 =\n*Release Date - 1 December 2022*\n\n* Improved compatibility with themes that hide or show UI elements based on mouse movements.\n* Increased security of API keys by sending them in request bodies instead of subdomains.\n\n= 5.0.1 =\n*Release Date - 28 September 2022*\n\n* Added an empty state for the Statistics section on the admin page.\n* Fixed a bug that broke some admin page links when Jetpack plugins are active.\n* Marked some event listeners as passive to improve performance in newer browsers.\n* Disabled interaction observation on forms that post to other domains.\n\n= 5.0 =\n*Release Date - 26 July 2022*\n\n* Added a new feature to catch spammers by observing how they interact with the page.\n\nFor older changelog entries, please see the [additional changelog.txt file](https://plugins.svn.wordpress.org/akismet/trunk/changelog.txt) delivered with the plugin.\n","meta":{"last_version":"5.5"},"ip":"107.180.250.162","timestamp":"2025-09-09T22:30:53.492014+05:30","curl-command":"curl -X 'GET' -d '' -H 'Accept: */*' -H 'Accept-Language: en' -H 'User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10.15; rv:109.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/117.0' 'https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/akismet/readme.txt'","matcher-status":true}
{"template":"http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/all-in-one-seo-pack.yaml","template-url":"https://cloud.projectdiscovery.io/public/wordpress-all-in-one-seo-pack","template-id":"wordpress-all-in-one-seo-pack","template-path":"/Users/ayushi/nuclei-templates/http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/all-in-one-seo-pack.yaml","info":{"name":"All in One SEO – Powerful SEO Plugin to Boost SEO Rankings \u0026 Increase Traffic Detection","author":["ricardomaia"],"tags":["tech","wordpress","wp-plugin","top-100","top-200"],"reference":["https://wordpress.org/plugins/all-in-one-seo-pack/"],"severity":"info","metadata":{"plugin_namespace":"all-in-one-seo-pack","wpscan":"https://wpscan.com/plugin/all-in-one-seo-pack"}},"extractor-name":"detected_version","type":"http","host":"hypertrends.com","port":"443","scheme":"https","url":"https://hypertrends.com","matched-at":"https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/all-in-one-seo-pack/readme.txt","extracted-results":["4.8.7"],"request":"GET /wp-content/plugins/all-in-one-seo-pack/readme.txt HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: hypertrends.com\r\nUser-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64; rv:124.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/124.0\r\nAccept: */*\r\nAccept-Language: en\r\nAccept-Encoding: gzip\r\n\r\n","response":"HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r\nConnection: close\r\nTransfer-Encoding: chunked\r\nContent-Security-Policy: default-src * 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval' data: blob:;\r\nContent-Type: text/plain\r\nDate: Tue, 09 Sep 2025 17:00:54 GMT\r\nEtag: W/\"68b915d8-6450\"\r\nLast-Modified: Thu, 04 Sep 2025 04:30:16 GMT\r\nReferrer-Policy: no-referrer-when-downgrade\r\nServer: nginx\r\nStrict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000;\r\nVary: Accept-Encoding\r\nX-Content-Type-Options: nosniff\r\nX-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN\r\nX-Rocket-Nginx-Serving-Static: MISS\r\nX-Xss-Protection: 1; mode=block\r\n\r\n=== All in One SEO – Powerful SEO Plugin to Boost SEO Rankings \u0026 Increase Traffic ===\nContributors: aioseo, smub, benjaminprojas\nTags: SEO, Google Search Console, XML Sitemap, meta description, schema\nTested up to: 6.8\nRequires at least: 5.4\nRequires PHP: 7.2\nStable tag: 4.8.7\nLicense: GPLv3 or later\nLicense URI: https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.txt\n\nAIOSEO is the most powerful WordPress SEO plugin. Improve SEO rankings and traffic with comprehensive SEO tools and smart AI SEO optimizations!\n\n== Description ==\n\n### AIOSEO - The Best WordPress SEO Plugin \u0026 Toolkit ###\n\nAll in One SEO is the original WordPress SEO plugin started in 2007. Today, over 3 million website owners and SEO experts use AIOSEO for higher SEO rankings.\n\nOur users consistently rate [AIOSEO](https://aioseo.com/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin 'All in One SEO for WordPress') as the most comprehensive WordPress SEO plugin and marketing toolkit. It's the fastest way to optimize WordPress SEO settings, add schema markup, create XML sitemap, add local SEO, track SEO keyword rankings, automate internal linking, perform SEO audits, add Author SEO (EEAT), monitor SEO revisions, connect Google search console, and basically everything a SEO Pro would use to rank higher in search engines. \n\nWe have AI SEO features that help you optimize your posts for SEO by automatically generating SEO titles, meta descriptions, FAQs, key points, social media posts, and more.\n\n\u003e \u003cstrong\u003eAIOSEO Pro\u003c/strong\u003e\u003cbr /\u003e\n\u003e This is the lite version of the All in One WordPress SEO Pro plugin that comes with all the powerful SEO features you will ever need to rank higher in search engines including **smart SEO schema markup, advanced SEO modules, powerful SEO sitemap suite, local SEO module, SEO keyword ranking tracking, automatic internal linking, WooCommerce SEO**, and tons more. [Click here to purchase the best premium WordPress SEO plugin now!](https://aioseo.com/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin 'All in One SEO for WordPress')\n\nHere's why smart business owners, SEO experts, marketers, and developers love AIOSEO, and you will too!\n\n[youtube https://youtu.be/UbOYEEIvXvY]\n\n### What Makes AIOSEO Better than Other WordPress SEO Plugins ###\n\nAIOSEO is leading the innovation in WordPress SEO space, and our SEO features will give you a competitive advantage.\n\n* **Easy SEO Setup Wizard**\nOur SEO setup wizard optimizes your website's SEO settings based on your unique industry needs in less than 5 minutes.\n\n* **Smart Schema Markup (aka Rich Snippets)** \nGet better click through rate (CTR) and Google rich featured snippets using advanced SEO schema markups like FAQ schema, product schema, recipe schema markup, and dozens more using our custom [Schema Generator](https://aioseo.com/features/rich-snippets-schema/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin 'Schema Generator').\n\n* **AI Content Generator** \nSave time by automatically generating SEO titles, meta descriptions, FAQs, key points, social media posts, and more using our [AI Content Generator](https://aioseo.com/features/ai-content-generator/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin 'AI Content Generator').\n\n* **Unlimited SEO Keywords** \nOptimize for unlimited SEO keywords using our SEO content analyzer. Our TruSEO score gives you detailed content \u0026 readability analysis, so you can get higher SEO rankings.\n\n* **Google Keyword Rank Tracking**\nEasily track how your website is ranking for different keywords in Google from your [WordPress dashboard](https://aioseo.com/features/search-statistics/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin 'Google Keyword Rank Tracker').\n\n* **Automatic Link Assistant**\nAutomate internal links between your pages using our smart [internal linking algorithm](https://aioseo.com/features/internal-link-assistant/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin 'Link Assistant') that will help improve on-page SEO.\n\n* **Local Business SEO**\nImprove your local SEO presence with local business schema, support for multiple local store locations, business opening hours, Google Maps integration, contact info (business email, business phone, business address, etc), and more with our [Local SEO module](https://aioseo.com/features/local-seo/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin 'Local SEO').\n\n* **Site Audit**\nGet a detailed report of SEO issues for all posts and terms on your site, discover why these issues are important and how you can fix them.\n\n* **SEO Revisions**\nKeep a [historical record of SEO changes](https://aioseo.com/seo-revisions/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin 'SEO Revisions'), monitor the impact of changes, and restore previous versions in one click.\n\n* **Content Decay Tracking**\nNever lose traffic to competitors. Quickly detect which content is losing traffic / SEO rankings, so you can optimize it to regain your rankings with our [Search Statistics module](https://aioseo.com/features/search-statistics/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin 'Search Statistics').\n\n* **Smart XML Sitemap**\nAdvanced XML sitemaps to boost your SEO rankings (with easy setup inside Google Search Console). Also includes Video SEO XML sitemap, News SEO XML sitemap, RSS sitemap, and HTML sitemap.\n\n* **Smart SEO Redirects**\nThe most powerful [SEO Redirection manager](https://aioseo.com/features/redirection-manager/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin 'Redirection Manager') for setting up advanced SEO redirects including 301 redirects, 302, 307, 410, 404 redirection, REGEX redirects, and more.\n\n* **404 Error Monitor**\nAutomatic 404 error monitor helps you track and redirect 404 errors, so you don't lose SEO rankings.\n\n* **Author SEO**\nAdd [custom author profile pages, author bio box, and relevant author schema](https://aioseo.com/features/author-seo-google-e-e-a-t/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin 'Author SEO (E-E-A-T)') to boost Google EEAT score to help with Google's Helpful Content Update (HCU).\n\n* **LLMs.txt Generator**\nGenerate an llms.txt file to help AI engines discover your site's content more easily so your content can rank in AI search results.\n\n* **SEO Audit Checklist**\nImprove your SEO ranking with our comprehensive SEO audit checklist.\n\n* **Knowledge Graph Support**\nImprove your website's search appearance with SEO Knowledge panel.\n\n* **Table of Contents**\nAutomatically generate a table of content, customize headings, anchors, and you can also hide or reorder the headings.\n\n### Advanced SEO Plugin Features ###\n\n* **User Access Control**\nControl who can manage your SEO settings with our advanced SEO access control.\n\n* **WordPress REST API**\nManage your SEO metadata with WordPress REST API. Great for headless WordPress installations.\n\n* **Advanced Robots Meta SEO Settings**\nGranular controls for no index, no follow, no archive, no snippet, max snippet, max video, etc.\n\n* **RSS Content for SEO**\nStop content scraping from hurting your SEO rankings.\n\n* **Full Site Redirects**\nMerging websites or switching domains? Full site redirect makes it easy to switch domains without losing SEO rankings.\n\n* **Smart Meta Title \u0026 Description**\nAutomatic SEO generation, dynamic SEO smart tags, include Emoji, add shortcodes, and more features to stand out in search results.\n\n* **Smart Breadcrumbs**\nAdd Breadcrumb navigation to improve user experience and boost your SEO rankings. Comes with full SEO JSON+LD support.\n\n* **Automatic Image SEO**\nHelps your images rank higher by autogenerating image title, clean SEO image filenames, and more.\n\n* **Advanced SEO Canonical URLs**\nPrevent duplicate content in SEO with automatic canonical URLs.\n\n* **SEO Cleanup / Manual SEO Penalty Removal**\nDomains Report feature in Link Assistant automatically removes all links for specific domains with just one click. Huge time saver when doing SEO cleanups.\n\n* **Link Opportunities Report**\nSee better internal link opportunities with our smart algorithm. Easily add internal links with just a few clicks.\n\n* **Robots.txt Editor**\nManage and customize SEO robots.txt files in WordPress.\n\n* **Crawl Quota Management**\nCrawl Cleanup feature manages your search engine crawl quota and index your important content faster.\n\n* **Title and Nofollow for SEO**\nEasily add title and nofollow to external links.\n\n* **Headline Analyzer**\nAnalyze your page / posts headlines to improve CTR and SEO rankings.\n\n* **Competitor Site SEO Analysis**\nUse competitor SEO analysis to outrank them with better SEO optimization.\n\n* **SEO Code Snippets**\nIntegration with [WPCode plugin](https://wordpress.org/plugins/insert-headers-and-footers/) for SEO code snippets to further customize every aspect of your SEO.\n\n\n### WordPress SEO Integrations ###\n\n* **Google Search Console Integration**\nConnect with Google webmaster tools and Google Search Console to see SEO insights (like content rankings, keyword rankings, page speed insights, post index status, etc) directly in your WordPress dashboard.\n\n* **WooCommerce SEO**\nImproves your WooCommerce SEO rankings. Easily optimize WooCommerce product pages, product categories, and more for best eCommerce SEO results.\n\n* **Knowledge Panel SEO**\nImprove website SEO appearance by adding social media profile links for Facebook, Twitter, Wikipedia, Instagram, LinkedIn, Yelp, YouTube, and more.\n\n* **Webmaster Tool Integrations**\nConnect with all webmaster tools including Google Search Console, Bing SEO, Yandex SEO, Baidu SEO, Google Analytics, Pinterest site verification, and more.\n\n* **Social Media Integration**\nFacebook SEO, Twitter SEO, and Pinterest SEO with better website previews.\n\n* **Google AMP SEO Integration**\nImprove your mobile SEO rankings with Google AMP SEO.\n\n* **Semrush SEO integration**\nSee additional SEO keywords with Semrush SEO integration.\n\n* **Microsoft Clarity Integration**\nSee visitor interactions with heatmaps and session recordings.\n\n* **IndexNow Integration**\nInstantly notify Bing and Yandex for faster SEO indexing.\n\n* **Elementor SEO**\nBetter Elementor SEO for landing pages.\n\n* **Divi SEO**\nBetter Divi SEO for landing pages.\n\n* **Avada SEO**\nBetter Avada SEO for landing pages.\n\n* **WP Bakery SEO**\nBetter WP Bakery SEO for landing pages.\n\n* **SeedProd SEO**\nOptimize SeedProd landing pages for SEO.\n\n* **SiteOrigin SEO**\nBetter SiteOrigin SEO for landing pages.\n\n* **Open Graph Support**\nImprove SEO rankings with open graph meta data.\n\n### WordPress SEO Plugin Importer ###\n\nNot happy with your current SEO plugin? We make SEO migration easy with our point-and-click automated SEO data transfer tool. We currently support SEO migration from following SEO tools:\n\n* Yoast SEO Importer\n* Yoast SEO Premium Importer\n* RankMath SEO Importer\n* SEOPress\n\nWe also support importing SEO redirects from the following plugins:\n\n* Redirection Plugin\n* Simple 301 Redirects Importer\n* Safe Redirect Manager\n* 301 Redirects Importer\n\nAside from that, our SEO migration tool also helps you with:\n\n* Import / Export AIOSEO settings from one site to another\n* Create SEO Settings Backup\n* CSV Sitemap Import to Import additional pages to your XML Sitemaps\n\n\n**Now you can see why AIOSEO is often rated the best SEO plugin in WordPress.**\n\nGive AIOSEO a try.\n\nWant to unlock more SEO features? [Upgrade to AIOSEO Pro](https://aioseo.com/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin 'All in One SEO for WordPress').\n\n### Credits ###\n\nThis plugin is created by [Benjamin Rojas](https://benjaminrojas.net/ 'Benjamin Rojas') and [Syed Balkhi](https://syedbalkhi.com/ 'Syed Balkhi').\n\n### Branding Guideline ###\n\nAIOSEO\u0026reg; is a registered trademark of Semper Plugins LLC. When writing about the WordPress SEO plugin by AIOSEO, please use the following format.\n\n* AIOSEO (correct)\n* All in One SEO (correct)\n* AIO SEO (incorrect)\n* All in 1 SEO (incorrect)\n* AISEO (incorrect)\n\n== Changelog ==\n\n**New in Version 4.8.7**\n\n* Updated: Hardened API routes to prevent unauthorized access.\n* Updated: Added support for tracking breadcrumb setting changes in SEO Revisions.\n* Updated: Added support for WooCommerce GTIN field to Product schema.\n* Updated: Added support for .avif images to Image Sitemap and Image SEO addon.\n* Updated: Review limit for Product schema can now be modified via a new filter hook.\n* Updated: Use site URL instead of home URL for llms.txt to handle WP installs in subdirectories.\n* Updated: Remove all user meta when AIOSEO is uninstalled.\n* Updated: Improved performance of Cornerstone Content filtering.\n* Fixed: Product shipping details schema clearing cart content in rare case where logged-in user adds a product to the cart and then edits a product in the admin panel.\n* Fixed: ProfilePage schema sometimes invalid due to incorrect author URL.\n* Fixed: Hide AIOSEO custom link fields inside the Edit Link modal in WPBakery visual builder to prevent plugin conflict.\n* Fixed: AIOSEO Settings not successfully saving before post is published in WPBakery visual builder.\n* Fixed: The SEO title and description were not persisting if the post content is too large.\n* Fixed: Theme conflict with Neve where the EDD Checkout block does not show if Run Shortcodes is enabled.\n* Fixed: Breadcrumb block not updating when changing the post title.\n* Fixed: If WooCommerce brand is selected as primary category, it is now correctly used in the URL.\n* Fixed: Headline Analyzer layout breaks when entering very long headlines.\n\n**New in Version 4.8.6.1**\n\n* Updated: Prevent potential plugin conflicts due to the loading of dependencies multiple times.\n* Updated: Local SEO render options for Opening Hours are now hidden when feature is disabled.\n* Fixed: Loading spinner for SEO Revisions in sidebar menu not aligned.\n\n**New in Version 4.8.6**\n\n* New: Site Audit - Get a detailed report of SEO issues for all posts and terms on your site, discover why these issues are important and how you can fix them. 🔨\n* Fixed: Multisite subsite requests to Search Statistics server sometimes fail due to missing license.\n* Fixed: Rare PHP error when breadcrumbs cannot be determined for non-standard pages.\n\n**New in Version 4.8.5**\n\n* Updated: Author SEO (E-E-A-T) addon and Writing Assistant data are now fully removed when uninstalling the plugin.\n* Updated: Product Schema now favours WooCommerce brand field over its own custom field.\n* Updated: PHP version notices are now only shown to Administrators.\n* Fixed: Breadcrumbs taxonomy preview now correctly refreshes when user toggles between using the default settings\n* Fixed: WooCommerce Brand smart tag not correctly converted to expected value in previews.\n* Fixed: AIOSEO Details column now correctly reloads after quick-editing a post.\n* Fixed: Image URLs are no longer forcefully converted to lowercase in the Image Sitemap.\n* Fixed: Focus Keyword now saves correctly again for Divi built posts.\n* Fixed: Image SEO no longer breaks Divi built posts in rare cases.\n* Fixed: Multisite subsites no longer incorrectly inherit the \"Block AI Crawlers\" and \"Block Crawling of Internal Site Search URLs\" setting values from the main site in the network. \n* Fixed: Notifications no longer contain encoded HTML entities\n* Fixed: Default options for new redirects not localized.\n* Fixed: PHP error in rare cases when breadcrumb link is a WP_Error.\n* Fixed: PHP error due to plugin conflict with MasterStudy LMS.\n\n**New in Version 4.8.4.1**\n\n* Fixed: PHP error for multisites when AI credits don't manage to update correctly.\n\n**New in Version 4.8.4**\n\n* New: AI Content - Use our new smart AI features to automatically generate FAQs, Key Points, social media posts and more, that perfectly fit your articles. 🤖\n* New: LLMs.txt File - The new llms.txt file helps AI engines discover your site's content more easily so your content can rank in AI search results.\n* Updated: Index Status Report now fetches index data from Google on-the-fly when it is missing or expired.\n* Fixed: Image SEO addon no longer incorrectly encodes HTML in captions.\n* Fixed: PHP notice when trying to format price of products in Product schema where no price is set.\n* Fixed: Added back missing $crumb param to aioseo_breadcrumbs_template filter hook for compatibility.\n\n**New in Version 4.8.3.2**\n\n* Updated: Defined purpose of SEO title and meta description so WPML can adhere to character limits when auto-translating these fields.\n* Fixed: Breadcrumbs schema error when homepage crumb link is disabled under Breadcrumb settings.\n\n**New in Version 4.8.3.1**\n\n* New: Custom Breadcrumb Trails – Create custom breadcrumb trails for all your posts and terms to granularly control how they are displayed.\n* New: Added multilingual sitemap support for Weglot.\n* Updated: Breadcrumb schema markup is now directly tied to your visual breadcrumb trail.\n* Updated: Deprecated Bad Bot Blocker feature has now been fully removed from the plugin.\n* Updated: Image Sitemap now stores locally hosted images as relative URLs in order to facilitate seamless site migrations.\n* Updated: AIOSEO autoloaded option no longer stores SEO Analyzer results in order to improve performance.\n* Updated: Improved performance by no longer storing Writing Assistant's country and language data in user metadata.\n* Updated: Minor performance improvements for General, HTML, and RSS sitemaps by removing unnecessary fields from database queries.\n* Updated: Added additional caching to prevent sites from sending redundant concurrent requests to AIOSEO servers to check for new updates.\n* Updated: Added support to TruSEO for Elementor's Optimized DOM feature.\n* Updated: Added support to import post/term level redirects from the Rank Math SEO plugin.\n* Updated: Added support for Bluesky and Threads to Social Networks settings.\n* Updated: Unified the “Last Modified Date” checkbox design across WooCommerce Products and Classic Editor posts.\n* Updated: Improved UX for the AIOSEO Overview widget by showing TruSEO scores for all posts, regardless of whether they have a Focus Keyword.\n* Updated: “Keyword in URL” TruSEO check is now disabled when WordPress permalinks are not enabled.\n* Updated: Improved sitemap validation to only allow “inherit” post status for attachments.\n* Fixed: Dynamic backup for temporarily deregistered post types and taxonomies now works correctly again.\n* Fixed: Add redirects bulk action within the 404 Logs tab now works correctly again.\n* Fixed: Cache issue in multisite when sub-site is not network activated.\n* Fixed: Additional Pages sitemap index no longer shows the image column.\n* Fixed: SEO revision now shows the correct name for taxonomies other than category.\n* Fixed: AIOSEO popup overlap in Divi.\n* Fixed: News Sitemap title now outputs encoded versions of special characters (\u0026, \u003e, \u003c, ‘, etc.).\n* Fixed: When deleting the modified date for an additional sitemap record, it now shows as empty instead of invalid.\n* Fixed: Sitemap would sometimes throw an error if another plugin/theme added content to the output, causing it to be parsed incorrectly.\n* Fixed: TruSEO would sometimes not be able to read Elementor's post content.\n* Fixed: Tumblr URL format in the social meta and schema markup are now always the same.\n* Fixed: Book schema markup now correctly outputs the book format.\n* Fixed: Fact Check schema now correctly outputs the claim author.\n* Fixed: Google Rich Results Test link now appears again in the toolbar menu.\n* Fixed: URL input validation no longer shows an error for empty values.\n* Fixed: Improved Link Assistant's ability to handle large amounts of text by increasing the text size limit for paragraphs and optimizing how text content is processed.\n* Fixed: SEO settings now properly update when switching between pages in the Elementor editor.\n* Fixed: SEO Title and Meta Description compatibility with Astra Pro Site Builder and SureForms plugins.\n* Fixed: Link Assistant Inner post report would sometimes fail to refresh.\n* Fixed: Compatibility with LearnDash Notifications while using Redirect's Advanced 404 feature.\n* Fixed: Resolved duplicate DB queries when loading notifications for the Notification Center.\n* Fixed: URLs in the sitemap are now properly encoded for non-English languages when using WPML.\n* Fixed: TruSEO settings not being updated depending on the content.\n* Fixed: PHP deprecation warning for PHP 8.4 in Action Scheduler.\n* Fixed: PHP warning for taxonomy sitemap indexes.\n* Fixed: PHP warning when using Divi and custom schema markup.\n* Fixed: PHP notice in Author SEO (E-E-A-T) addon due to translations loaded too early.\n* Fixed: SEO Site Score widget sometimes not displaying results.\n\n**See our [changelog on aioseo.com](https://aioseo.com/changelog/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=aioseo) for previous releases.**\n\n== Frequently Asked Questions ==\n\nPlease visit our [complete AIOSEO documentation](https://aioseo.com/docs/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin) before requesting support for SEO from the AIOSEO team.\n\n= Who should use AIOSEO? =\n\nSEO is essential for all websites. AIOSEO is perfect for business owners, bloggers, marketers, designers, developers, photographers, and basically everyone else. If you want to rank higher in search, then you need to use AIOSEO WordPress SEO plugin.\n\n= Which themes does AIOSEO support? =\n\nAIOSEO works with all WordPress themes. Simply enable AIOSEO to make your WordPress theme SEO friendly.\n\n= Will AIOSEO slow down my website? =\n\nNope, AIOSEO will NOT slow down your website. We understand that speed is important for SEO, that's why our code is properly optimized for maximum performance. Remember, faster websites rank higher in search. Use AIOSEO for fast SEO improvements.\n\n= Can I use AIOSEO on client sites? =\n\nYes, you can use AIOSEO on client websites.\n\n= Are AIOSEO sitemaps better than default WordPress sitemaps? =\n\nYes, AIOSEO smart sitemaps are a lot more optimized than the default WordPress sitemaps. Once you enable AIOSEO, our XML sitemaps will override the default WordPress sitemaps, so you can improve your SEO rankings.\n\nWe also offer advanced SEO sitemaps such as News Sitemap, Video Sitemap, and RSS Sitemap.\n\nOur SEO sitemaps come with granular control such as links per sitemap, enable / disable post types or taxonomies, include / exclude specific links from sitemap, add additional non-WordPress pages to sitemaps, customize sitemap priority \u0026 frequency for each section of your site, and more.\n\nThis is why experts rate AIOSEO as the best WordPress SEO plugin.\n\n= Does AIOSEO help with SEO Verification? =\n\nYes. AIOSEO can help you with website SEO verification with various webmaster tools such as Google Search Console, Bing Webmaster Tools, Yandex, Baidu, Pinterest, and just about every other site verification you need.\n\n= Why is AIOSEO better than other SEO plugins? =\n\nThere are many WordPress SEO plugins out there. Unlike others, AIOSEO WordPress SEO plugin is always reliable. Our SEO features are results focused (no bloat), and we offer exceptional customer support.\n\nAIOSEO is the original WordPress SEO plugin, and it's trusted by over 3 million website owners.\n\n= Do I really need an XML Sitemap? =\n\n**Yes! XML Sitemaps help Google and other search engines to find all the pages of your website.**\n\nAn XML sitemap is a list of all the content on your website. The sitemap helps search engine bots to easily see all the content on your site in one place, The XML sitemap file is hidden from your human visitors, however search engines like Google can see it.\n\nWithout an XML sitemap, some of your web pages may never be included in Google search results, and won't get any traffic.\n\nXML Sitemaps also help you tell Google which pages you DON'T want included in search results. This can help your SEO to prevent keyword cannibalization and duplicate content issues.\n\nAs part of your SEO strategy, **an XML sitemap can help you to improve your domain authority and unlock more traffic from Google, Bing and other search engines**.\n\nAIOSEO can easily help you get your sitemaps listed inside Google Search Console so your content can start to get indexed today!\n\n= Does AIOSEO integrate directly with Google Search Console? =\n\nAbsolutely! Our integration with Google Search Console allows you to monitor and maintain your website's presence on Google. With our direct integration, you can easily view important information about your website, such as the number of clicks, impressions, and the average position for each keyword that your website's content appears for in Google search results. You can also track your contents page speed using Google's Page Speed Insights directly inside your WordPress dashboard.\n\nAdditionally, AIOSEO can also provide you with data on the most frequently used keywords, the most popular pages on your website, and any crawl errors or security issues that may arise. By integrating with Google Search Console, AIOSEO provides website owners with valuable insights that can help to improve SEO and overall online visibility. With this integration, you can track your site's progress over time and make data-driven decisions that will help you achieve your SEO goals.\n\n== Screenshots ==\n\n1. SEO Content Analyzer (Gutenberg)\n2. SEO Content Analyzer (Classic Editor)\n3. SEO Setup Wizard\n4. SEO Site Analysis\n5. Webmaster Tools Connect\n6. Social Media Integrations\n7. Local SEO\n8. Sitemaps\n9. Search Appearance Settings\n10. Robots.txt Editor\n11. RSS Content Control\n12. Headline Analyzer\n13. Redirect Manager\n14. Link Assistant\n\n== Upgrade Notice ==\n\n= 4.8.7 =\n\nThis update adds major improvements and bug fixes.","meta":{"last_version":"4.8.5"},"ip":"107.180.250.162","timestamp":"2025-09-09T22:30:54.551628+05:30","curl-command":"curl -X 'GET' -d '' -H 'Accept: */*' -H 'Accept-Language: en' -H 'User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64; rv:124.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/124.0' 'https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/all-in-one-seo-pack/readme.txt'","matcher-status":true}
{"template":"http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/all-in-one-wp-migration.yaml","template-url":"https://cloud.projectdiscovery.io/public/wordpress-all-in-one-wp-migration","template-id":"wordpress-all-in-one-wp-migration","template-path":"/Users/ayushi/nuclei-templates/http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/all-in-one-wp-migration.yaml","info":{"name":"All-in-One WP Migration and Backup Detection","author":["ricardomaia"],"tags":["tech","wordpress","wp-plugin","top-100","top-200"],"reference":["https://wordpress.org/plugins/all-in-one-wp-migration/"],"severity":"info","metadata":{"plugin_namespace":"all-in-one-wp-migration","wpscan":"https://wpscan.com/plugin/all-in-one-wp-migration"}},"extractor-name":"detected_version","type":"http","host":"hypertrends.com","port":"443","scheme":"https","url":"https://hypertrends.com","matched-at":"https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/all-in-one-wp-migration/readme.txt","extracted-results":["7.98"],"request":"GET /wp-content/plugins/all-in-one-wp-migration/readme.txt HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: hypertrends.com\r\nUser-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux x86_64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/77.0.3865.75 Safari/537.36\r\nAccept: */*\r\nAccept-Language: en\r\nAccept-Encoding: gzip\r\n\r\n","response":"HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r\nConnection: close\r\nTransfer-Encoding: chunked\r\nContent-Security-Policy: default-src * 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval' data: blob:;\r\nContent-Type: text/plain\r\nDate: Tue, 09 Sep 2025 17:00:54 GMT\r\nEtag: W/\"68b00f1b-2cef\"\r\nLast-Modified: Thu, 28 Aug 2025 08:11:07 GMT\r\nReferrer-Policy: no-referrer-when-downgrade\r\nServer: nginx\r\nStrict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000;\r\nVary: Accept-Encoding\r\nX-Content-Type-Options: nosniff\r\nX-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN\r\nX-Rocket-Nginx-Serving-Static: MISS\r\nX-Xss-Protection: 1; mode=block\r\n\r\n=== All-in-One WP Migration and Backup ===\nContributors: yani.iliev, bangelov, pimjitsawang\nTags: backup, transfer, copy, move, clone\nRequires at least: 3.3\nTested up to: 6.8\nRequires PHP: 5.3\nStable tag: 7.98\nLicense: GPLv3 or later\n\nTrusted by 60M+ sites: The gold standard for WordPress migrations, backups, and site transfers since 2013.\n\n== Description ==\n**The Most Trusted WordPress Migration \u0026 Backup Solution Since 2013**\n\nAll-in-One WP Migration is the gold standard for WordPress site migration, used by over 60 million websites worldwide - from small blogs to Fortune 500 companies and government agencies. Our plugin offers enterprise-grade reliability with beginner-friendly simplicity.\n\n**Why Choose All-in-One WP Migration?**\n\n* **Effortless Migration**: Export your entire site with a single click - including database, media, themes, and plugins\n* **Zero Downtime**: Complete your migration with no service interruptions\n* **Universal Compatibility**: Works across all hosting providers, from budget shared hosting to high-end dedicated servers\n* **Technical Excellence**: Engineered for reliability with memory-efficient processing (512KB chunks), ideal for resource-limited environments\n* **No Technical Skills Required**: Intuitive interface designed for users of all skill levels\n* **Cross-Database Support**: Seamlessly move between MySQL, MariaDB, and SQLite databases\n* **Secure \u0026 Reliable**: Trusted by Boeing, NASA, Harvard, Stanford, Automattic, and government agencies worldwide\n\n**How It Works - Simple as 1-2-3:**\n\n1. **Install** the plugin on your source and destination sites\n2. **Export** your site to a .wpress file with one click\n3. **Import** using our drag-and-drop importer on your destination site\n\n**For Developers \u0026 Power Users:**\n\n* **Advanced Find \u0026 Replace**: Control exactly what changes during migration\n* **Selective Content Migration**: Include/exclude specific content types\n* **PHP 5.3-8.4 Compatibility**: Works across virtually all hosting environments\n* **Custom WPress Format**: Our optimized archive format ensures data integrity\n* **Hook System**: Extensive API for custom integration and workflows\n* **Command-Line Support**: Automate migrations via WP-CLI\n\n**Premium Extensions:**\n\nEnhance your migration workflow with our [premium extensions](https://servmask.com/products) for:\n\n* **Unlimited Site Size**: Migrate sites of any size\n* **Cloud Storage Integration**: Direct migration to/from Dropbox, Google Drive, OneDrive, and more\n* **Multisite Support**: Migrate complex WordPress networks\n* **Scheduled Backups**: Automated, recurring backups\n* **Database Filtering**: Exclude specific tables or data\n\n**Features Spotlight:**\n\n* WCAG 2.1 AA Level accessibility compliance\n* Mobile-responsive interface\n* [Browse WPRESS files online](https://traktor.servmask.com) or [extract locally](https://traktor.wp-migration.com)\n* Automatic URL and path replacement\n* WordPress Playground integration for SQLite/MySQL migration\n* Regular bi-weekly updates ensuring compatibility with the latest WordPress versions\n* Available in 50+ languages including Japanese\n\n**Trusted by the Government and Big Corporations:**\n\nMany enterprise customers, government organizations, and universities use, love, and trust All-in-One WP Migration. Here are some: Boeing, NASA, VW, IBM, Harvard University, Stanford University, Lego, P\u0026G, Automattic, State of California, State of Hawaii.\nThis broad adoption and usage of All-in-One WP Migration demonstrate how **safe, reliable and adaptable** the plugin is for just about any website migration need.\n\n**Update Frequency:**\nOur team is dedicated to keeping All-in-One WP Migration up-to-date and secure. We release updates every two weeks or at least once a month, ensuring compatibility with the latest WordPress versions, including beta releases. Our proactive testing and feedback to the WordPress core team help in preemptively addressing any potential issues, providing our users with a reliable and forward-compatible migration and backup solution.\n\n**Full Compatibility and Support:**\n\nAll-in-One WP Migration has been extensively tested and confirmed to be compatible with most WordPress plugins and themes.\nThis means you don't get to experience cross-plugin compatibility issues that can slow down, bug, or break down your WordPress website when you install and use All-in-One WP Migration.\nAs a matter of fact, All-in-One WP Migration has partnered with multiple theme/plugin vendors to distribute their themes/plugins with us as a single, easy to use, easy to install package.\nThese vendors trust us and our plugin to provide their customers with reliable product delivery, support, migrations, and backups.\n\n**Cloud Storage Supported:**\n\nAll-in-One WP Migration supports and syncs seamlessly with top cloud storage services.\nThe plugin comes preinstalled on all Bitnami WordPress sites running on AWS, Google Compute Cloud, and Microsoft Azure.\n\n**Case Studies:**\n\n* Small Business Growth: A small online retailer was able to seamlessly migrate to a more robust hosting solution to handle increasing traffic during peak shopping seasons, ensuring smooth customer experiences without downtime.\n* Educational Institutions: A prominent university utilized All-in-One WP Migration to consolidate multiple departmental sites into a single, unified WordPress network, simplifying management and enhancing site security.\n* Government Reliability: Following a directive to improve digital accessibility, a government agency used our plugin to migrate their content to a new, compliant platform without impacting public access to critical information.\n\n= Contact us =\n* [Report a security vulnerability](https://patchstack.com/database/vdp/all-in-one-wp-migration)\n* [Get free help from us here](https://servmask.com/help)\n* [Report a bug or request a feature](https://servmask.com/help)\n* [Find out more about us](https://servmask.com)\n\n[youtube http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BpWxCeUWBOk]\n\n[youtube http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRp7qTFYKgs]\n\n== Installation ==\n1. All-in-One WP Migration can be installed directly through your WordPress Plugins dashboard.\n1. Click \"Add New\" and Search for \"All-in-One WP Migration\"\n1. Install and Activate\n\nAlternatively, you can download the plugin using the download button on this page and then upload the all-in-one-wp-migration folder to the /wp-content/plugins/ directory then activate throught the Plugins dashboard in WordPress\n\n== Screenshots ==\n1. Mobile Export page\n2. Mobile Import page\n3. Plugin Menu\n\n== Privacy Policy ==\nAll-in-One WP Migration is designed to fully respect and protect the personal information of its users. It asks for your consent to collect the user's email address when filling the plugin's contact form.\nAll-in-One WP Migration is in full compliance with General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).\nSee our [GDPR Compliant Privacy Policy here](https://www.iubenda.com/privacy-policy/946881).\n\n== Changelog ==\n= 7.98 =\n**Added**\n\n* WP_IMPORTING constant for better hosting providers compatibility\n\n**Fixed**\n\n* Stored Cross-Site Scripting vulnerability in file upload (CVE-2025-8490). Thank you WordFence and Jack Pas for reporting this. [What you need to know](https://help.servmask.com/knowledgebase/cve-2025-8490-what-you-need-to-know).\n* File upload exceptions handling for better error reporting\n\n**Improved**\n\n* PHP 8 compatibility issues in MySQLi database handler\n* File uploader refactored for enhanced security and reliability\n\n= 7.97 =\n**Added**\n\n* SQLite support in AUTO_INCREMENT check\n\n**Fixed**\n\n* Database replacement for serialized values to handle edge cases with string length validation\n\n= 7.96 =\n**Added**\n\n* Admin notice warning when AUTO_INCREMENT is missing on wp_options table\n\n= 7.95 =\n**Added**\n\n* New action hook ai1wm_status_export_init for developers on export initialization\n\n**Fixed**\n\n* Theme export progress display showing incorrect percentage\n* Uninstall.php script functionality\n* Export and import button ordering\n* Dropdown height styling issues\n\n= 7.94 =\n**Added**\n\n* Refresh Elementor plugin cache on import\n\n= 7.93 =\n**Fixed**\n\n* Compatibility issue with PHP 7 and PHP 5 due to trailing comma in style registration\n\n= 7.92 =\n**Improved**\n\n* Passed Plugin Check Plugin (PCP) validation\n* Archive name generation\n\n= 7.91 =\n**Added**\n\n* CiviCRM for WordPress support\n\n= 7.90 =\n**Added**\n\n* Introduced a constant to disable MySQL late row lookups for enhanced database performance\n\n**Improved**\n\n* Enhanced SQLite database integration for improved stability and efficiency\n* Strengthened serialization replacement mechanism to address an unauthenticated PHP Object Injection vulnerability (CVE-2024-10942). Special thanks to Webbernaut for responsibly disclosing this issue\n* Preserved the wp_rocket_settings option during exports for improved user experience\n\n**Fixed**\n\n* Resolved PHP 8.4 deprecation warnings\n\n= 7.89 =\n**Improved**\n\n* Upgraded to Node.js 22 for better performance and security\n* Updated all plugin dependencies to keep things running smoothly and securely\n\n= 7.88 =\n**Fixed**\n\n* Fixed an issue where the upload progress was stuck at 100%\n* Fixed an issue where the upload could not be cancelled before it was completed\n\n**Improved**\n\n* Improved user-facing messages to be friendlier, direct, consistent, and more informative.\n\n= 7.87 =\n**Fixed**\n\n* Resolved a vulnerability where error logs were publicly accessible with a known name by appending random affixes to error log filenames, making them unguessable. Error logs are now automatically deleted daily and during plugin updates. Special thanks to villu164 for responsibly disclosing this issue.\n* Resolved a vulnerability where an administrator user could inject arbitrary PHP code through specific inputs. This vulnerability requires administrator-level access to exploit, ensuring that unauthorized users cannot perform this action. Special thanks to Ryan Kozak for responsibly disclosing this issue.\n\n= 7.86 =\n**Fixed**\n\n* Resolved an issue with PHP 8.4 compatibility and restoring backup files via WP-CLI\n\n= 7.85 =\n**Added**\n\n* PHP 8.4 compatibility\n\n= 7.84 =\n**Added**\n\n* New hooks during the export and import processes to allow for custom actions and integrations\n\n= 7.83 =\n**Fixed**\n\n* Resolved an issue where downloading backup files was failing on WordPress Playground environments\n\n= 7.82 =\n**Added**\n\n* SQLite support\n* WordPress Playground support\n\n= 7.81 =\n**Added**\n\n* Reset Hub Page: Introducing a new reset hub page, providing users with powerful reset tools for efficient site management. This feature allows for easier resets of WordPress environments, facilitating smoother development and testing workflows.\n\n**Improved**\n\n* Better W3TC Support\n* PHP Compatibility Checks: Display a warning notification, when you move/restore your site to a different PHP version.\n\n= 7.80 =\n**Added**\n\n* Support for update-services plugin\n* Domain name conversion to dashes from dots in the backup name for improved hosting providers compatibility\n\n**Improved**\n\n* Better support for Multisite to Standalone and Standalone to Multisite exports and imports, streamlining the migration process\n\n= 7.79 =\n**Added**\n\n* Support for WordPress v6.4\n\n= 7.78 =\n**Added**\n\n* Implemented a new Schedules page within the plugin, displaying various advanced features exclusive to premium extensions\n\n= 7.77 =\n**Added**\n\n* Tested the new version of WordPress 6.3\n\n= 7.76 =\n**Fixed**\n\n* Removed the [beta] label from advanced settings\n","meta":{"last_version":"7.97"},"ip":"107.180.250.162","timestamp":"2025-09-09T22:30:55.09711+05:30","curl-command":"curl -X 'GET' -d '' -H 'Accept: */*' -H 'Accept-Language: en' -H 'User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux x86_64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/77.0.3865.75 Safari/537.36' 'https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/all-in-one-wp-migration/readme.txt'","matcher-status":true}
{"template":"http/technologies/waf-detect.yaml","template-url":"https://cloud.projectdiscovery.io/public/waf-detect","template-id":"waf-detect","template-path":"/Users/ayushi/nuclei-templates/http/technologies/waf-detect.yaml","info":{"name":"WAF Detection","author":["dwisiswant0","lu4nx"],"tags":["waf","tech","misc"],"description":"A web application firewall was detected.","reference":["https://github.com/Ekultek/WhatWaf"],"severity":"info","metadata":{"max-request":1},"classification":{"cve-id":null,"cwe-id":["cwe-200"]}},"matcher-name":"nginxgeneric","type":"http","host":"hypertrends.com","port":"443","scheme":"https","url":"https://hypertrends.com","matched-at":"https://hypertrends.com","request":"POST / HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: hypertrends.com\r\nUser-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_14_5) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/12.1.1 Safari/605.1.15\r\nConnection: close\r\nContent-Length: 27\r\nContent-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded\r\nAccept-Encoding: gzip\r\n\r\n_=\u003cscript\u003ealert(1)\u003c/script\u003e","response":"HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r\nConnection: close\r\nTransfer-Encoding: chunked\r\nCache-Control: max-age=0\r\nContent-Security-Policy: default-src * 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval' data: blob:;\r\nContent-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8\r\nDate: Tue, 09 Sep 2025 17:00:55 GMT\r\nExpires: Tue, 09 Sep 2025 17:00:55 GMT\r\nLink: \u003chttps://www.hypertrends.com/wp-json/\u003e; rel=\"https://api.w.org/\"\r\nLink: \u003chttps://www.hypertrends.com/wp-json/wp/v2/pages/8311\u003e; rel=\"alternate\"; title=\"JSON\"; type=\"application/json\"\r\nLink: \u003chttps://www.hypertrends.com/\u003e; rel=shortlink\r\nReferrer-Policy: no-referrer-when-downgrade\r\nServer: nginx\r\nStrict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000;\r\nVary: Accept-Encoding\r\nX-Content-Type-Options: nosniff\r\nX-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN\r\nX-Rocket-Nginx-Serving-Static: BYPASS\r\nX-Xss-Protection: 1; mode=block\r\n\r\n\u003c!DOCTYPE html\u003e\n\u003chtml class=\"no-js\" dir=\"ltr\" lang=\"en-US\" prefix=\"og: https://ogp.me/ns#\"\u003e\n\u003chead\u003e\n\u003cmeta charset=\"UTF-8\"\u003e\n\u003cmeta name=\"viewport\" content=\"width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0\"\u003e\n\u003clink rel=\"pingback\" href=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/xmlrpc.php\"\u003e\n\u003ctitle\u003eThe AI Revenue-Growth Company\u003c/title\u003e\n\t\u003cstyle\u003eimg:is([sizes=\"auto\" i], [sizes^=\"auto,\" i]) { contain-intrinsic-size: 3000px 1500px }\u003c/style\u003e\n\t\n\t\t\u003c!-- All in One SEO 4.8.7 - aioseo.com --\u003e\n\t\u003cmeta name=\"description\" content=\"Helping businesses scale massively by using AI as their differentiator. Building the future of your business, today.\" /\u003e\n\t\u003cmeta name=\"robots\" content=\"max-image-preview:large\" /\u003e\n\t\u003cmeta name=\"google-site-verification\" content=\"eebZLa5ZXudPzyPc3XaeDl1tRWOHXCxvdcRp5HMBSAE\" /\u003e\n\t\u003clink rel=\"canonical\" href=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/\" /\u003e\n\t\u003cmeta name=\"generator\" content=\"All in One SEO (AIOSEO) 4.8.7\" /\u003e\n\n\t\t\u003c!-- Global site tag (gtag.js) - Google Analytics --\u003e\n\u003cscript async src=\"https://www.googletagmanager.com/gtag/js?id=G-Y70L9RVJ4K\"\u003e\u003c/script\u003e\n\u003cscript\u003e\n  window.dataLayer = window.dataLayer || [];\n  function gtag(){dataLayer.push(arguments);}\n  gtag('js', new Date());\n\n  gtag('config', 'G-Y70L9RVJ4K');\n\u003c/script\u003e\n\t\t\u003cmeta property=\"og:locale\" content=\"en_US\" /\u003e\n\t\t\u003cmeta property=\"og:site_name\" content=\"HyperTrends Global Inc. - The AI Revenue-Growth Company\" /\u003e\n\t\t\u003cmeta property=\"og:type\" content=\"article\" /\u003e\n\t\t\u003cmeta property=\"og:title\" content=\"The AI Revenue-Growth Company\" /\u003e\n\t\t\u003cmeta property=\"og:description\" content=\"Helping businesses scale massively by using AI as their differentiator. Building the future of your business, today.\" /\u003e\n\t\t\u003cmeta property=\"og:url\" content=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/\" /\u003e\n\t\t\u003cmeta property=\"article:published_time\" content=\"2017-01-20T07:49:47+00:00\" /\u003e\n\t\t\u003cmeta property=\"article:modified_time\" content=\"2024-12-21T08:11:18+00:00\" /\u003e\n\t\t\u003cmeta name=\"twitter:card\" content=\"summary\" /\u003e\n\t\t\u003cmeta name=\"twitter:title\" content=\"The AI Revenue-Growth Company\" /\u003e\n\t\t\u003cmeta name=\"twitter:description\" content=\"Helping businesses scale massively by using AI as their differentiator. Building the future of your business, today.\" /\u003e\n\t\t\u003cscript type=\"application/ld+json\" class=\"aioseo-schema\"\u003e\n\t\t\t{\"@context\":\"https:\\/\\/schema.org\",\"@graph\":[{\"@type\":\"BreadcrumbList\",\"@id\":\"https:\\/\\/www.hypertrends.com\\/#breadcrumblist\",\"itemListElement\":[{\"@type\":\"ListItem\",\"@id\":\"https:\\/\\/www.hypertrends.com#listItem\",\"position\":1,\"name\":\"Home\"}]},{\"@type\":\"Organization\",\"@id\":\"https:\\/\\/www.hypertrends.com\\/#organization\",\"name\":\"HyperTrends Global Inc.\",\"description\":\"The AI Revenue-Growth Company\",\"url\":\"https:\\/\\/www.hypertrends.com\\/\",\"telephone\":\"+18006263503\",\"logo\":{\"@type\":\"ImageObject\",\"url\":\"https:\\/\\/www.hypertrends.com\\/wp-content\\/uploads\\/2015\\/08\\/htLogoSquareGreen.jpg\",\"@id\":\"https:\\/\\/www.hypertrends.com\\/#organizationLogo\",\"width\":320,\"height\":320,\"caption\":\"HyperTrends Web Design and Development Agency San Diego and Southern California\"},\"image\":{\"@id\":\"https:\\/\\/www.hypertrends.com\\/#organizationLogo\"}},{\"@type\":\"WebPage\",\"@id\":\"https:\\/\\/www.hypertrends.com\\/#webpage\",\"url\":\"https:\\/\\/www.hypertrends.com\\/\",\"name\":\"The AI Revenue-Growth Company\",\"description\":\"Helping businesses scale massively by using AI as their differentiator. Building the future of your business, today.\",\"inLanguage\":\"en-US\",\"isPartOf\":{\"@id\":\"https:\\/\\/www.hypertrends.com\\/#website\"},\"breadcrumb\":{\"@id\":\"https:\\/\\/www.hypertrends.com\\/#breadcrumblist\"},\"datePublished\":\"2017-01-20T07:49:47+00:00\",\"dateModified\":\"2024-12-21T08:11:18+00:00\"},{\"@type\":\"WebSite\",\"@id\":\"https:\\/\\/www.hypertrends.com\\/#website\",\"url\":\"https:\\/\\/www.hypertrends.com\\/\",\"name\":\"HyperTrends Global Inc.\",\"description\":\"The AI Revenue-Growth Company\",\"inLanguage\":\"en-US\",\"publisher\":{\"@id\":\"https:\\/\\/www.hypertrends.com\\/#organization\"}}]}\n\t\t\u003c/script\u003e\n\t\t\u003c!-- All in One SEO --\u003e\n\n\u003clink rel='dns-prefetch' href='//www.hypertrends.com' /\u003e\n\u003clink rel=\"alternate\" type=\"application/rss+xml\" title=\"HyperTrends Global Inc. \u0026raquo; Feed\" href=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/feed/\" /\u003e\n\u003clink rel=\"alternate\" type=\"application/rss+xml\" title=\"HyperTrends Global Inc. \u0026raquo; Comments Feed\" href=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/comments/feed/\" /\u003e\n\t\t\u003c!-- This site uses the Google Analytics by ExactMetrics plugin v8.7.4 - Using Analytics tracking - https://www.exactmetrics.com/ --\u003e\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\u003cscript src=\"//www.googletagmanager.com/gtag/js?id=G-BE3P29EN2J\"  data-cfasync=\"false\" data-wpfc-render=\"false\" type=\"text/javascript\" async\u003e\u003c/script\u003e\n\t\t\t\u003cscript data-cfasync=\"false\" data-wpfc-render=\"false\" type=\"text/javascript\"\u003e\n\t\t\t\tvar em_version = '8.7.4';\n\t\t\t\tvar em_track_user = true;\n\t\t\t\tvar em_no_track_reason = '';\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tvar ExactMetricsDefaultLocations = {\"page_location\":\"https:\\/\\/www.hypertrends.com\\/\"};\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tif ( typeof ExactMetricsPrivacyGuardFilter === 'function' ) {\n\t\t\t\t\tvar ExactMetricsLocations = (typeof ExactMetricsExcludeQuery === 'object') ? ExactMetricsPrivacyGuardFilter( ExactMetricsExcludeQuery ) : ExactMetricsPrivacyGuardFilter( ExactMetricsDefaultLocations );\n\t\t\t\t} else {\n\t\t\t\t\tvar ExactMetricsLocations = (typeof ExactMetricsExcludeQuery === 'object') ? ExactMetricsExcludeQuery : ExactMetricsDefaultLocations;\n\t\t\t\t}\n\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tvar disableStrs = [\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t'ga-disable-G-BE3P29EN2J',\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t];\n\n\t\t\t\t/* Function to detect opted out users */\n\t\t\t\tfunction __gtagTrackerIsOptedOut() {\n\t\t\t\t\tfor (var index = 0; index \u003c disableStrs.length; index++) {\n\t\t\t\t\t\tif (document.cookie.indexOf(disableStrs[index] + '=true') \u003e -1) {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\treturn true;\n\t\t\t\t\t\t}\n\t\t\t\t\t}\n\n\t\t\t\t\treturn false;\n\t\t\t\t}\n\n\t\t\t\t/* Disable tracking if the opt-out cookie exists. */\n\t\t\t\tif (__gtagTrackerIsOptedOut()) {\n\t\t\t\t\tfor (var index = 0; index \u003c disableStrs.length; index++) {\n\t\t\t\t\t\twindow[disableStrs[index]] = true;\n\t\t\t\t\t}\n\t\t\t\t}\n\n\t\t\t\t/* Opt-out function */\n\t\t\t\tfunction __gtagTrackerOptout() {\n\t\t\t\t\tfor (var index = 0; index \u003c disableStrs.length; index++) {\n\t\t\t\t\t\tdocument.cookie = disableStrs[index] + '=true; expires=Thu, 31 Dec 2099 23:59:59 UTC; path=/';\n\t\t\t\t\t\twindow[disableStrs[index]] = true;\n\t\t\t\t\t}\n\t\t\t\t}\n\n\t\t\t\tif ('undefined' === typeof gaOptout) {\n\t\t\t\t\tfunction gaOptout() {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t__gtagTrackerOptout();\n\t\t\t\t\t}\n\t\t\t\t}\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\twindow.dataLayer = window.dataLayer || [];\n\n\t\t\t\twindow.ExactMetricsDualTracker = {\n\t\t\t\t\thelpers: {},\n\t\t\t\t\ttrackers: {},\n\t\t\t\t};\n\t\t\t\tif (em_track_user) {\n\t\t\t\t\tfunction __gtagDataLayer() {\n\t\t\t\t\t\tdataLayer.push(arguments);\n\t\t\t\t\t}\n\n\t\t\t\t\tfunction __gtagTracker(type, name, parameters) {\n\t\t\t\t\t\tif (!parameters) {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\tparameters = {};\n\t\t\t\t\t\t}\n\n\t\t\t\t\t\tif (parameters.send_to) {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t__gtagDataLayer.apply(null, arguments);\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\treturn;\n\t\t\t\t\t\t}\n\n\t\t\t\t\t\tif (type === 'event') {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tparameters.send_to = exactmetrics_frontend.v4_id;\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\tvar hookName = name;\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\tif (typeof parameters['event_category'] !== 'undefined') {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\thookName = parameters['event_category'] + ':' + name;\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t}\n\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\tif (typeof ExactMetricsDualTracker.trackers[hookName] !== 'undefined') {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tExactMetricsDualTracker.trackers[hookName](parameters);\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t} else {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t__gtagDataLayer('event', name, parameters);\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t}\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\n\t\t\t\t\t\t} else {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t__gtagDataLayer.apply(null, arguments);\n\t\t\t\t\t\t}\n\t\t\t\t\t}\n\n\t\t\t\t\t__gtagTracker('js', new Date());\n\t\t\t\t\t__gtagTracker('set', {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t'developer_id.dNDMyYj': true,\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t});\n\t\t\t\t\tif ( ExactMetricsLocations.page_location ) {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t__gtagTracker('set', ExactMetricsLocations);\n\t\t\t\t\t}\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t__gtagTracker('config', 'G-BE3P29EN2J', {\"forceSSL\":\"true\",\"page_path\":location.pathname + location.search + location.hash} );\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\twindow.gtag = __gtagTracker;\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t(function () {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t/* https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/analyticsjs/ */\n\t\t\t\t\t\t/* ga and __gaTracker compatibility shim. */\n\t\t\t\t\t\tvar noopfn = function () {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\treturn null;\n\t\t\t\t\t\t};\n\t\t\t\t\t\tvar newtracker = function () {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\treturn new Tracker();\n\t\t\t\t\t\t};\n\t\t\t\t\t\tvar Tracker = function () {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\treturn null;\n\t\t\t\t\t\t};\n\t\t\t\t\t\tvar p = Tracker.prototype;\n\t\t\t\t\t\tp.get = noopfn;\n\t\t\t\t\t\tp.set = noopfn;\n\t\t\t\t\t\tp.send = function () {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\tvar args = Array.prototype.slice.call(arguments);\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\targs.unshift('send');\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t__gaTracker.apply(null, args);\n\t\t\t\t\t\t};\n\t\t\t\t\t\tvar __gaTracker = function () {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\tvar len = arguments.length;\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\tif (len === 0) {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\treturn;\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t}\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\tvar f = arguments[len - 1];\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\tif (typeof f !== 'object' || f === null || typeof f.hitCallback !== 'function') {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tif ('send' === arguments[0]) {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tvar hitConverted, hitObject = false, action;\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tif ('event' === arguments[1]) {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tif ('undefined' !== typeof arguments[3]) {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\thitObject = {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t'eventAction': arguments[3],\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t'eventCategory': arguments[2],\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t'eventLabel': arguments[4],\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t'value': arguments[5] ? arguments[5] : 1,\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t}\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t}\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t}\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tif ('pageview' === arguments[1]) {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tif ('undefined' !== typeof arguments[2]) {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\thitObject = {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t'eventAction': 'page_view',\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t'page_path': arguments[2],\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t}\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t}\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t}\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tif (typeof arguments[2] === 'object') {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\thitObject = arguments[2];\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t}\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tif (typeof arguments[5] === 'object') {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tObject.assign(hitObject, arguments[5]);\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t}\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tif ('undefined' !== typeof arguments[1].hitType) {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\thitObject = arguments[1];\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tif ('pageview' === hitObject.hitType) {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\thitObject.eventAction = 'page_view';\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t}\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t}\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tif (hitObject) {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\taction = 'timing' === arguments[1].hitType ? 'timing_complete' : hitObject.eventAction;\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\thitConverted = mapArgs(hitObject);\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t__gtagTracker('event', action, hitConverted);\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t}\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t}\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\treturn;\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t}\n\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\tfunction mapArgs(args) {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tvar arg, hit = {};\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tvar gaMap = {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t'eventCategory': 'event_category',\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t'eventAction': 'event_action',\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t'eventLabel': 'event_label',\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t'eventValue': 'event_value',\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t'nonInteraction': 'non_interaction',\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t'timingCategory': 'event_category',\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t'timingVar': 'name',\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t'timingValue': 'value',\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t'timingLabel': 'event_label',\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t'page': 'page_path',\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t'location': 'page_location',\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t'title': 'page_title',\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t'referrer' : 'page_referrer',\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t};\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tfor (arg in args) {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tif (!(!args.hasOwnProperty(arg) || !gaMap.hasOwnProperty(arg))) {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\thit[gaMap[arg]] = args[arg];\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t} else {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\thit[arg] = args[arg];\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t}\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t}\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\treturn hit;\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t}\n\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\ttry {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tf.hitCallback();\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t} catch (ex) {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t}\n\t\t\t\t\t\t};\n\t\t\t\t\t\t__gaTracker.create = newtracker;\n\t\t\t\t\t\t__gaTracker.getByName = newtracker;\n\t\t\t\t\t\t__gaTracker.getAll = function () {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\treturn [];\n\t\t\t\t\t\t};\n\t\t\t\t\t\t__gaTracker.remove = noopfn;\n\t\t\t\t\t\t__gaTracker.loaded = true;\n\t\t\t\t\t\twindow['__gaTracker'] = __gaTracker;\n\t\t\t\t\t})();\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t} else {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tconsole.log(\"\");\n\t\t\t\t\t(function () {\n\t\t\t\t\t\tfunction __gtagTracker() {\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\treturn null;\n\t\t\t\t\t\t}\n\n\t\t\t\t\t\twindow['__gtagTracker'] = __gtagTracker;\n\t\t\t\t\t\twindow['gtag'] = __gtagTracker;\n\t\t\t\t\t})();\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t}\n\t\t\t\u003c/script\u003e\n\t\t\t\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\u003c!-- / Google Analytics by ExactMetrics --\u003e\n\t\t\u003cscript type=\"text/javascript\"\u003e\n/* \u003c![CDATA[ */\nwindow._wpemojiSettings = {\"baseUrl\":\"https:\\/\\/s.w.org\\/images\\/core\\/emoji\\/16.0.1\\/72x72\\/\",\"ext\":\".png\",\"svgUrl\":\"https:\\/\\/s.w.org\\/images\\/core\\/emoji\\/16.0.1\\/svg\\/\",\"svgExt\":\".svg\",\"source\":{\"concatemoji\":\"https:\\/\\/www.hypertrends.com\\/wp-includes\\/js\\/wp-emoji-release.min.js?ver=6.8.2\"}};\n/*! This file is auto-generated */\n!function(s,n){var o,i,e;function c(e){try{var t={supportTests:e,timestamp:(new Date).valueOf()};sessionStorage.setItem(o,JSON.stringify(t))}catch(e){}}function p(e,t,n){e.clearRect(0,0,e.canvas.width,e.canvas.height),e.fillText(t,0,0);var t=new Uint32Array(e.getImageData(0,0,e.canvas.width,e.canvas.height).data),a=(e.clearRect(0,0,e.canvas.width,e.canvas.height),e.fillText(n,0,0),new Uint32Array(e.getImageData(0,0,e.canvas.width,e.canvas.height).data));return t.every(function(e,t){return e===a[t]})}function u(e,t){e.clearRect(0,0,e.canvas.width,e.canvas.height),e.fillText(t,0,0);for(var n=e.getImageData(16,16,1,1),a=0;a\u003cn.data.length;a++)if(0!==n.data[a])return!1;return!0}function f(e,t,n,a){switch(t){case\"flag\":return n(e,\"\\ud83c\\udff3\\ufe0f\\u200d\\u26a7\\ufe0f\",\"\\ud83c\\udff3\\ufe0f\\u200b\\u26a7\\ufe0f\")?!1:!n(e,\"\\ud83c\\udde8\\ud83c\\uddf6\",\"\\ud83c\\udde8\\u200b\\ud83c\\uddf6\")\u0026\u0026!n(e,\"\\ud83c\\udff4\\udb40\\udc67\\udb40\\udc62\\udb40\\udc65\\udb40\\udc6e\\udb40\\udc67\\udb40\\udc7f\",\"\\ud83c\\udff4\\u200b\\udb40\\udc67\\u200b\\udb40\\udc62\\u200b\\udb40\\udc65\\u200b\\udb40\\udc6e\\u200b\\udb40\\udc67\\u200b\\udb40\\udc7f\");case\"emoji\":return!a(e,\"\\ud83e\\udedf\")}return!1}function g(e,t,n,a){var r=\"undefined\"!=typeof WorkerGlobalScope\u0026\u0026self instanceof WorkerGlobalScope?new OffscreenCanvas(300,150):s.createElement(\"canvas\"),o=r.getContext(\"2d\",{willReadFrequently:!0}),i=(o.textBaseline=\"top\",o.font=\"600 32px Arial\",{});return e.forEach(function(e){i[e]=t(o,e,n,a)}),i}function t(e){var t=s.createElement(\"script\");t.src=e,t.defer=!0,s.head.appendChild(t)}\"undefined\"!=typeof Promise\u0026\u0026(o=\"wpEmojiSettingsSupports\",i=[\"flag\",\"emoji\"],n.supports={everything:!0,everythingExceptFlag:!0},e=new Promise(function(e){s.addEventListener(\"DOMContentLoaded\",e,{once:!0})}),new Promise(function(t){var n=function(){try{var e=JSON.parse(sessionStorage.getItem(o));if(\"object\"==typeof e\u0026\u0026\"number\"==typeof e.timestamp\u0026\u0026(new Date).valueOf()\u003ce.timestamp+604800\u0026\u0026\"object\"==typeof e.supportTests)return e.supportTests}catch(e){}return null}();if(!n){if(\"undefined\"!=typeof Worker\u0026\u0026\"undefined\"!=typeof OffscreenCanvas\u0026\u0026\"undefined\"!=typeof URL\u0026\u0026URL.createObjectURL\u0026\u0026\"undefined\"!=typeof Blob)try{var e=\"postMessage(\"+g.toString()+\"(\"+[JSON.stringify(i),f.toString(),p.toString(),u.toString()].join(\",\")+\"));\",a=new Blob([e],{type:\"text/javascript\"}),r=new Worker(URL.createObjectURL(a),{name:\"wpTestEmojiSupports\"});return void(r.onmessage=function(e){c(n=e.data),r.terminate(),t(n)})}catch(e){}c(n=g(i,f,p,u))}t(n)}).then(function(e){for(var t in e)n.supports[t]=e[t],n.supports.everything=n.supports.everything\u0026\u0026n.supports[t],\"flag\"!==t\u0026\u0026(n.supports.everythingExceptFlag=n.supports.everythingExceptFlag\u0026\u0026n.supports[t]);n.supports.everythingExceptFlag=n.supports.everythingExceptFlag\u0026\u0026!n.supports.flag,n.DOMReady=!1,n.readyCallback=function(){n.DOMReady=!0}}).then(function(){return e}).then(function(){var e;n.supports.everything||(n.readyCallback(),(e=n.source||{}).concatemoji?t(e.concatemoji):e.wpemoji\u0026\u0026e.twemoji\u0026\u0026(t(e.twemoji),t(e.wpemoji)))}))}((window,document),window._wpemojiSettings);\n\n\u003c/script\u003e\n\u003clink rel='stylesheet' id='sbi_styles-css' href='https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/instagram-feed/css/sbi-styles.min.css?ver=6.9.1' type='text/css' media='all' /\u003e\n\u003clink rel='stylesheet' id='layerslider-css' href='https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/LayerSlider/assets/static/layerslider/css/layerslider.css?ver=7.15.1' type='text/css' media='all' /\u003e\n\u003cstyle id='wp-emoji-styles-inline-css' type='text/css'\u003e\n\n\timg.wp-smiley, img.emoji {\n\t\tdisplay: inline !important;\n\t\tborder: none !important;\n\t\tbox-shadow: none !important;\n\t\theight: 1em !important;\n\t\twidth: 1em !important;\n\t\tmargin: 0 0.07em !important;\n\t\tvertical-align: -0.1em !important;\n\t\tbackground: none !important;\n\t\tpadding: 0 !important;\n\t}\n\u003c/style\u003e\n\u003clink rel='stylesheet' id='wp-block-library-css' href='https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-includes/css/dist/block-library/style.min.css?ver=6.8.2' type='text/css' media='all' /\u003e\n\u003cstyle id='wp-block-library-theme-inline-css' type='text/css'\u003e\n.wp-block-audio :where(figcaption){color:#555;font-size:13px;text-align:center}.is-dark-theme .wp-block-audio :where(figcaption){color:#ffffffa6}.wp-block-audio{margin:0 0 1em}.wp-block-code{border:1px solid #ccc;border-radius:4px;font-family:Menlo,Consolas,monaco,monospace;padding:.8em 1em}.wp-block-embed :where(figcaption){color:#555;font-size:13px;text-align:center}.is-dark-theme .wp-block-embed :where(figcaption){color:#ffffffa6}.wp-block-embed{margin:0 0 1em}.blocks-gallery-caption{color:#555;font-size:13px;text-align:center}.is-dark-theme .blocks-gallery-caption{color:#ffffffa6}:root :where(.wp-block-image figcaption){color:#555;font-size:13px;text-align:center}.is-dark-theme :root :where(.wp-block-image figcaption){color:#ffffffa6}.wp-block-image{margin:0 0 1em}.wp-block-pullquote{border-bottom:4px solid;border-top:4px solid;color:currentColor;margin-bottom:1.75em}.wp-block-pullquote cite,.wp-block-pullquote footer,.wp-block-pullquote__citation{color:currentColor;font-size:.8125em;font-style:normal;text-transform:uppercase}.wp-block-quote{border-left:.25em solid;margin:0 0 1.75em;padding-left:1em}.wp-block-quote cite,.wp-block-quote footer{color:currentColor;font-size:.8125em;font-style:normal;position:relative}.wp-block-quote:where(.has-text-align-right){border-left:none;border-right:.25em solid;padding-left:0;padding-right:1em}.wp-block-quote:where(.has-text-align-center){border:none;padding-left:0}.wp-block-quote.is-large,.wp-block-quote.is-style-large,.wp-block-quote:where(.is-style-plain){border:none}.wp-block-search .wp-block-search__label{font-weight:700}.wp-block-search__button{border:1px solid #ccc;padding:.375em .625em}:where(.wp-block-group.has-background){padding:1.25em 2.375em}.wp-block-separator.has-css-opacity{opacity:.4}.wp-block-separator{border:none;border-bottom:2px solid;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto}.wp-block-separator.has-alpha-channel-opacity{opacity:1}.wp-block-separator:not(.is-style-wide):not(.is-style-dots){width:100px}.wp-block-separator.has-background:not(.is-style-dots){border-bottom:none;height:1px}.wp-block-separator.has-background:not(.is-style-wide):not(.is-style-dots){height:2px}.wp-block-table{margin:0 0 1em}.wp-block-table td,.wp-block-table th{word-break:normal}.wp-block-table :where(figcaption){color:#555;font-size:13px;text-align:center}.is-dark-theme .wp-block-table :where(figcaption){color:#ffffffa6}.wp-block-video :where(figcaption){color:#555;font-size:13px;text-align:center}.is-dark-theme .wp-block-video :where(figcaption){color:#ffffffa6}.wp-block-video{margin:0 0 1em}:root :where(.wp-block-template-part.has-background){margin-bottom:0;margin-top:0;padding:1.25em 2.375em}\n\u003c/style\u003e\n\u003cstyle id='classic-theme-styles-inline-css' type='text/css'\u003e\n/*! This file is auto-generated */\n.wp-block-button__link{color:#fff;background-color:#32373c;border-radius:9999px;box-shadow:none;text-decoration:none;padding:calc(.667em + 2px) calc(1.333em + 2px);font-size:1.125em}.wp-block-file__button{background:#32373c;color:#fff;text-decoration:none}\n\u003c/style\u003e\n\u003clink rel='stylesheet' id='dashicons-css' href='https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-includes/css/dashicons.min.css?ver=6.8.2' type='text/css' media='all' /\u003e\n\u003clink rel='stylesheet' id='essgrid-blocks-editor-css-css' href='https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/essential-grid/admin/includes/builders/gutenberg/build/index.css?ver=1754459397' type='text/css' media='all' /\u003e\n\u003cstyle id='global-styles-inline-css' type='text/css'\u003e\n:root{--wp--preset--aspect-ratio--square: 1;--wp--preset--aspect-ratio--4-3: 4/3;--wp--preset--aspect-ratio--3-4: 3/4;--wp--preset--aspect-ratio--3-2: 3/2;--wp--preset--aspect-ratio--2-3: 2/3;--wp--preset--aspect-ratio--16-9: 16/9;--wp--preset--aspect-ratio--9-16: 9/16;--wp--preset--color--black: #000000;--wp--preset--color--cyan-bluish-gray: #abb8c3;--wp--preset--color--white: #ffffff;--wp--preset--color--pale-pink: #f78da7;--wp--preset--color--vivid-red: #cf2e2e;--wp--preset--color--luminous-vivid-orange: #ff6900;--wp--preset--color--luminous-vivid-amber: #fcb900;--wp--preset--color--light-green-cyan: #7bdcb5;--wp--preset--color--vivid-green-cyan: #00d084;--wp--preset--color--pale-cyan-blue: #8ed1fc;--wp--preset--color--vivid-cyan-blue: #0693e3;--wp--preset--color--vivid-purple: #9b51e0;--wp--preset--gradient--vivid-cyan-blue-to-vivid-purple: linear-gradient(135deg,rgba(6,147,227,1) 0%,rgb(155,81,224) 100%);--wp--preset--gradient--light-green-cyan-to-vivid-green-cyan: linear-gradient(135deg,rgb(122,220,180) 0%,rgb(0,208,130) 100%);--wp--preset--gradient--luminous-vivid-amber-to-luminous-vivid-orange: linear-gradient(135deg,rgba(252,185,0,1) 0%,rgba(255,105,0,1) 100%);--wp--preset--gradient--luminous-vivid-orange-to-vivid-red: linear-gradient(135deg,rgba(255,105,0,1) 0%,rgb(207,46,46) 100%);--wp--preset--gradient--very-light-gray-to-cyan-bluish-gray: linear-gradient(135deg,rgb(238,238,238) 0%,rgb(169,184,195) 100%);--wp--preset--gradient--cool-to-warm-spectrum: linear-gradient(135deg,rgb(74,234,220) 0%,rgb(151,120,209) 20%,rgb(207,42,186) 40%,rgb(238,44,130) 60%,rgb(251,105,98) 80%,rgb(254,248,76) 100%);--wp--preset--gradient--blush-light-purple: linear-gradient(135deg,rgb(255,206,236) 0%,rgb(152,150,240) 100%);--wp--preset--gradient--blush-bordeaux: linear-gradient(135deg,rgb(254,205,165) 0%,rgb(254,45,45) 50%,rgb(107,0,62) 100%);--wp--preset--gradient--luminous-dusk: linear-gradient(135deg,rgb(255,203,112) 0%,rgb(199,81,192) 50%,rgb(65,88,208) 100%);--wp--preset--gradient--pale-ocean: linear-gradient(135deg,rgb(255,245,203) 0%,rgb(182,227,212) 50%,rgb(51,167,181) 100%);--wp--preset--gradient--electric-grass: linear-gradient(135deg,rgb(202,248,128) 0%,rgb(113,206,126) 100%);--wp--preset--gradient--midnight: linear-gradient(135deg,rgb(2,3,129) 0%,rgb(40,116,252) 100%);--wp--preset--font-size--small: 13px;--wp--preset--font-size--medium: 20px;--wp--preset--font-size--large: 36px;--wp--preset--font-size--x-large: 42px;--wp--preset--spacing--20: 0.44rem;--wp--preset--spacing--30: 0.67rem;--wp--preset--spacing--40: 1rem;--wp--preset--spacing--50: 1.5rem;--wp--preset--spacing--60: 2.25rem;--wp--preset--spacing--70: 3.38rem;--wp--preset--spacing--80: 5.06rem;--wp--preset--shadow--natural: 6px 6px 9px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.2);--wp--preset--shadow--deep: 12px 12px 50px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.4);--wp--preset--shadow--sharp: 6px 6px 0px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.2);--wp--preset--shadow--outlined: 6px 6px 0px -3px rgba(255, 255, 255, 1), 6px 6px rgba(0, 0, 0, 1);--wp--preset--shadow--crisp: 6px 6px 0px rgba(0, 0, 0, 1);}:where(.is-layout-flex){gap: 0.5em;}:where(.is-layout-grid){gap: 0.5em;}body .is-layout-flex{display: flex;}.is-layout-flex{flex-wrap: wrap;align-items: center;}.is-layout-flex \u003e :is(*, div){margin: 0;}body .is-layout-grid{display: grid;}.is-layout-grid \u003e :is(*, div){margin: 0;}:where(.wp-block-columns.is-layout-flex){gap: 2em;}:where(.wp-block-columns.is-layout-grid){gap: 2em;}:where(.wp-block-post-template.is-layout-flex){gap: 1.25em;}:where(.wp-block-post-template.is-layout-grid){gap: 1.25em;}.has-black-color{color: var(--wp--preset--color--black) !important;}.has-cyan-bluish-gray-color{color: var(--wp--preset--color--cyan-bluish-gray) !important;}.has-white-color{color: var(--wp--preset--color--white) !important;}.has-pale-pink-color{color: var(--wp--preset--color--pale-pink) !important;}.has-vivid-red-color{color: var(--wp--preset--color--vivid-red) !important;}.has-luminous-vivid-orange-color{color: var(--wp--preset--color--luminous-vivid-orange) !important;}.has-luminous-vivid-amber-color{color: var(--wp--preset--color--luminous-vivid-amber) !important;}.has-light-green-cyan-color{color: var(--wp--preset--color--light-green-cyan) !important;}.has-vivid-green-cyan-color{color: var(--wp--preset--color--vivid-green-cyan) !important;}.has-pale-cyan-blue-color{color: var(--wp--preset--color--pale-cyan-blue) !important;}.has-vivid-cyan-blue-color{color: var(--wp--preset--color--vivid-cyan-blue) !important;}.has-vivid-purple-color{color: var(--wp--preset--color--vivid-purple) !important;}.has-black-background-color{background-color: var(--wp--preset--color--black) !important;}.has-cyan-bluish-gray-background-color{background-color: var(--wp--preset--color--cyan-bluish-gray) !important;}.has-white-background-color{background-color: var(--wp--preset--color--white) !important;}.has-pale-pink-background-color{background-color: var(--wp--preset--color--pale-pink) !important;}.has-vivid-red-background-color{background-color: var(--wp--preset--color--vivid-red) !important;}.has-luminous-vivid-orange-background-color{background-color: var(--wp--preset--color--luminous-vivid-orange) !important;}.has-luminous-vivid-amber-background-color{background-color: var(--wp--preset--color--luminous-vivid-amber) !important;}.has-light-green-cyan-background-color{background-color: var(--wp--preset--color--light-green-cyan) !important;}.has-vivid-green-cyan-background-color{background-color: var(--wp--preset--color--vivid-green-cyan) !important;}.has-pale-cyan-blue-background-color{background-color: var(--wp--preset--color--pale-cyan-blue) !important;}.has-vivid-cyan-blue-background-color{background-color: var(--wp--preset--color--vivid-cyan-blue) !important;}.has-vivid-purple-background-color{background-color: var(--wp--preset--color--vivid-purple) !important;}.has-black-border-color{border-color: var(--wp--preset--color--black) !important;}.has-cyan-bluish-gray-border-color{border-color: var(--wp--preset--color--cyan-bluish-gray) !important;}.has-white-border-color{border-color: var(--wp--preset--color--white) !important;}.has-pale-pink-border-color{border-color: var(--wp--preset--color--pale-pink) !important;}.has-vivid-red-border-color{border-color: var(--wp--preset--color--vivid-red) !important;}.has-luminous-vivid-orange-border-color{border-color: var(--wp--preset--color--luminous-vivid-orange) !important;}.has-luminous-vivid-amber-border-color{border-color: var(--wp--preset--color--luminous-vivid-amber) !important;}.has-light-green-cyan-border-color{border-color: var(--wp--preset--color--light-green-cyan) !important;}.has-vivid-green-cyan-border-color{border-color: var(--wp--preset--color--vivid-green-cyan) !important;}.has-pale-cyan-blue-border-color{border-color: var(--wp--preset--color--pale-cyan-blue) !important;}.has-vivid-cyan-blue-border-color{border-color: var(--wp--preset--color--vivid-cyan-blue) !important;}.has-vivid-purple-border-color{border-color: var(--wp--preset--color--vivid-purple) !important;}.has-vivid-cyan-blue-to-vivid-purple-gradient-background{background: var(--wp--preset--gradient--vivid-cyan-blue-to-vivid-purple) !important;}.has-light-green-cyan-to-vivid-green-cyan-gradient-background{background: var(--wp--preset--gradient--light-green-cyan-to-vivid-green-cyan) !important;}.has-luminous-vivid-amber-to-luminous-vivid-orange-gradient-background{background: var(--wp--preset--gradient--luminous-vivid-amber-to-luminous-vivid-orange) !important;}.has-luminous-vivid-orange-to-vivid-red-gradient-background{background: var(--wp--preset--gradient--luminous-vivid-orange-to-vivid-red) !important;}.has-very-light-gray-to-cyan-bluish-gray-gradient-background{background: var(--wp--preset--gradient--very-light-gray-to-cyan-bluish-gray) !important;}.has-cool-to-warm-spectrum-gradient-background{background: var(--wp--preset--gradient--cool-to-warm-spectrum) !important;}.has-blush-light-purple-gradient-background{background: var(--wp--preset--gradient--blush-light-purple) !important;}.has-blush-bordeaux-gradient-background{background: var(--wp--preset--gradient--blush-bordeaux) !important;}.has-luminous-dusk-gradient-background{background: var(--wp--preset--gradient--luminous-dusk) !important;}.has-pale-ocean-gradient-background{background: var(--wp--preset--gradient--pale-ocean) !important;}.has-electric-grass-gradient-background{background: var(--wp--preset--gradient--electric-grass) !important;}.has-midnight-gradient-background{background: var(--wp--preset--gradient--midnight) !important;}.has-small-font-size{font-size: var(--wp--preset--font-size--small) !important;}.has-medium-font-size{font-size: var(--wp--preset--font-size--medium) !important;}.has-large-font-size{font-size: var(--wp--preset--font-size--large) !important;}.has-x-large-font-size{font-size: var(--wp--preset--font-size--x-large) !important;}\n:where(.wp-block-post-template.is-layout-flex){gap: 1.25em;}:where(.wp-block-post-template.is-layout-grid){gap: 1.25em;}\n:where(.wp-block-columns.is-layout-flex){gap: 2em;}:where(.wp-block-columns.is-layout-grid){gap: 2em;}\n:root :where(.wp-block-pullquote){font-size: 1.5em;line-height: 1.6;}\n\u003c/style\u003e\n\u003clink rel='stylesheet' id='mc4wp-form-basic-css' href='https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/mailchimp-for-wp/assets/css/form-basic.css?ver=4.10.6' type='text/css' media='all' /\u003e\n\u003clink rel='stylesheet' id='megamenu-css' href='https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/uploads/maxmegamenu/style.css?ver=cfad33' type='text/css' media='all' /\u003e\n\u003clink rel='stylesheet' id='wpm-x-style-css' href='https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/themes/x/style.css?ver=6.8.2' type='text/css' media='all' /\u003e\n\u003clink rel='stylesheet' id='child-style-css' href='https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/themes/x-child/assets/css/custom.css?ver=1.0.0' type='text/css' media='all' /\u003e\n\u003clink rel='stylesheet' id='x-stack-css' href='https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/themes/x/framework/dist/css/site/stacks/renew.css?ver=10.7.2' type='text/css' media='all' /\u003e\n\u003clink rel='stylesheet' id='tp-fontello-css' href='https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/essential-grid/public/assets/font/fontello/css/fontello.css?ver=3.1.9.3' type='text/css' media='all' /\u003e\n\u003clink rel='stylesheet' id='esg-plugin-settings-css' href='https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/essential-grid/public/assets/css/settings.css?ver=3.1.9.3' type='text/css' media='all' /\u003e\n\u003cstyle id='cs-inline-css' type='text/css'\u003e\n@media (min-width:1200px){.x-hide-xl{display:none !important;}}@media (min-width:979px) and (max-width:1199px){.x-hide-lg{display:none !important;}}@media (min-width:767px) and (max-width:978px){.x-hide-md{display:none !important;}}@media (min-width:480px) and (max-width:766px){.x-hide-sm{display:none !important;}}@media (max-width:479px){.x-hide-xs{display:none !important;}} a,h1 a:hover,h2 a:hover,h3 a:hover,h4 a:hover,h5 a:hover,h6 a:hover,.x-comment-time:hover,#reply-title small a,.comment-reply-link:hover,.x-comment-author a:hover,.x-recent-posts a:hover .h-recent-posts{color:#de6262;}a:hover,#reply-title small a:hover{color:#a84a4a;}.entry-title i,.entry-title svg{color:#ddd;}a.x-img-thumbnail:hover,li.bypostauthor \u003e article.comment{border-color:#de6262;}.flex-direction-nav a,.flex-control-nav a:hover,.flex-control-nav a.flex-active,.x-dropcap,.x-skill-bar .bar,.x-pricing-column.featured h2,.h-comments-title small,.x-pagination a:hover,.woocommerce-pagination a:hover,.x-entry-share .x-share:hover,.entry-thumb,.widget_tag_cloud .tagcloud a:hover,.widget_product_tag_cloud .tagcloud a:hover,.x-highlight,.x-recent-posts .x-recent-posts-img:after,.x-portfolio-filters{background-color:#de6262;}.x-portfolio-filters:hover{background-color:#a84a4a;}.x-main{width:calc(80% - 3.20197%);}.x-sidebar{width:calc(100% - 3.20197% - 80%);}.h-landmark{font-weight:400;}.x-comment-author a{color:hsl(0,0%,29%);}.x-comment-author a,.comment-form-author label,.comment-form-email label,.comment-form-url label,.comment-form-rating label,.comment-form-comment label,.widget_calendar #wp-calendar caption,.widget_calendar #wp-calendar th,.x-accordion-heading .x-accordion-toggle,.x-nav-tabs \u003e li \u003e a:hover,.x-nav-tabs \u003e .active \u003e a,.x-nav-tabs \u003e .active \u003e a:hover{color:#373737;}.widget_calendar #wp-calendar th{border-bottom-color:#373737;}.x-pagination span.current,.woocommerce-pagination span[aria-current],.x-portfolio-filters-menu,.widget_tag_cloud .tagcloud a,.h-feature-headline span i,.widget_price_filter .ui-slider .ui-slider-handle{background-color:#373737;}@media (max-width:978.98px){}html{font-size:16px;}@media (min-width:479px){html{font-size:16px;}}@media (min-width:766px){html{font-size:16px;}}@media (min-width:978px){html{font-size:18px;}}@media (min-width:1199px){html{font-size:16px;}}body{font-style:normal;font-weight:400;color:hsl(0,0%,29%);background-color:hsl(0,0%,100%);}.w-b{font-weight:400 !important;}h1,h2,h3,h4,h5,h6,.h1,.h2,.h3,.h4,.h5,.h6,.x-text-headline{font-family:\"Lato\",sans-serif;font-style:normal;font-weight:700;}h1,.h1{letter-spacing:-0.0049999999999999975em;}h2,.h2{letter-spacing:-0.023em;}h3,.h3{letter-spacing:-0.029em;}h4,.h4{letter-spacing:-0.039em;}h5,.h5{letter-spacing:-0.044em;}h6,.h6{letter-spacing:-0.067em;}.w-h{font-weight:700 !important;}.x-container.width{width:88%;}.x-container.max{max-width:1100px;}.x-bar-content.x-container.width{flex-basis:88%;}.x-main.full{float:none;clear:both;display:block;width:auto;}@media (max-width:978.98px){.x-main.full,.x-main.left,.x-main.right,.x-sidebar.left,.x-sidebar.right{float:none;display:block;width:auto !important;}}.entry-header,.entry-content{font-size:1.15rem;}body,input,button,select,textarea{font-family:\"Lato\",sans-serif;}h1,h2,h3,h4,h5,h6,.h1,.h2,.h3,.h4,.h5,.h6,h1 a,h2 a,h3 a,h4 a,h5 a,h6 a,.h1 a,.h2 a,.h3 a,.h4 a,.h5 a,.h6 a,blockquote{color:#373737;}.cfc-h-tx{color:#373737 !important;}.cfc-h-bd{border-color:#373737 !important;}.cfc-h-bg{background-color:#373737 !important;}.cfc-b-tx{color:hsl(0,0%,29%) !important;}.cfc-b-bd{border-color:hsl(0,0%,29%) !important;}.cfc-b-bg{background-color:hsl(0,0%,29%) !important;}.x-btn,.button,[type=\"submit\"]{color:#373737;border-color:#373737;background-color:#ffffff;border-width:3px;text-transform:uppercase;background-color:transparent;padding:0.579em 1.105em 0.842em;font-size:19px;}.x-btn:hover,.button:hover,[type=\"submit\"]:hover{color:#de6262;border-color:#de6262;background-color:#ffffff;border-width:3px;text-transform:uppercase;background-color:transparent;}.x-btn.x-btn-real,.x-btn.x-btn-real:hover{margin-bottom:0.25em;text-shadow:0 0.075em 0.075em rgba(0,0,0,0.65);}.x-btn.x-btn-real{box-shadow:0 0.25em 0 0 #ed44a9,0 4px 9px rgba(0,0,0,0.75);}.x-btn.x-btn-real:hover{box-shadow:0 0.25em 0 0 #c41d7c,0 4px 9px rgba(0,0,0,0.75);}.x-btn.x-btn-flat,.x-btn.x-btn-flat:hover{margin-bottom:0;text-shadow:0 0.075em 0.075em rgba(0,0,0,0.65);box-shadow:none;}.x-btn.x-btn-transparent,.x-btn.x-btn-transparent:hover{margin-bottom:0;border-width:3px;text-shadow:none;text-transform:uppercase;background-color:transparent;box-shadow:none;}.x-topbar .p-info,.x-topbar .p-info a,.x-topbar .x-social-global a{color:hsl(0,2%,19%);}.x-topbar .p-info a:hover{color:#898989;}.x-topbar{background-color:hsl(0,0%,100%);}.x-navbar .desktop .x-nav \u003e li:before{padding-top:26px;}.x-navbar .desktop .x-nav \u003e li \u003e a,.x-navbar .desktop .sub-menu li \u003e a,.x-navbar .mobile .x-nav li a{color:hsl(0,0%,68%);}.x-navbar .desktop .x-nav \u003e li \u003e a:hover,.x-navbar .desktop .x-nav \u003e .x-active \u003e a,.x-navbar .desktop .x-nav \u003e .current-menu-item \u003e a,.x-navbar .desktop .sub-menu li \u003e a:hover,.x-navbar .desktop .sub-menu li.x-active \u003e a,.x-navbar .desktop .sub-menu li.current-menu-item \u003e a,.x-navbar .desktop .x-nav .x-megamenu \u003e .sub-menu \u003e li \u003e a,.x-navbar .mobile .x-nav li \u003e a:hover,.x-navbar .mobile .x-nav li.x-active \u003e a,.x-navbar .mobile .x-nav li.current-menu-item \u003e a{color:#de6262;}.x-btn-navbar,.x-btn-navbar:hover{color:#ffffff;}.x-navbar .desktop .sub-menu li:before,.x-navbar .desktop .sub-menu li:after{background-color:hsl(0,0%,68%);}.x-navbar,.x-navbar .sub-menu{background-color:hsl(0,0%,100%) !important;}.x-btn-navbar,.x-btn-navbar.collapsed:hover{background-color:#5b5b5b;}.x-btn-navbar.collapsed{background-color:#7c7c7c;}.x-navbar .desktop .x-nav \u003e li \u003e a:hover \u003e span,.x-navbar .desktop .x-nav \u003e li.x-active \u003e a \u003e span,.x-navbar .desktop .x-nav \u003e li.current-menu-item \u003e a \u003e span{box-shadow:0 2px 0 0 #de6262;}.x-navbar .desktop .x-nav \u003e li \u003e a{height:80px;padding-top:26px;}.x-navbar .desktop .x-nav \u003e li ul{top:80px;}.x-colophon.bottom{background-color:#373737;}.x-colophon.bottom,.x-colophon.bottom a,.x-colophon.bottom .x-social-global a{color:#ffffff;}body.x-navbar-fixed-top-active .x-navbar-wrap{height:80px;}.x-navbar-inner{min-height:80px;}.x-brand{margin-top:10px;font-family:\"Pacifico\",handwriting;font-size:36px;font-style:normal;font-weight:400;letter-spacing:0em;color:hsl(0,91%,7%);}.x-brand:hover,.x-brand:focus{color:hsl(0,91%,7%);}.x-brand img{width:calc(450px / 2);}.x-navbar .x-nav-wrap .x-nav \u003e li \u003e a{font-family:\"Lato\",sans-serif;font-style:normal;font-weight:400;letter-spacing:0.071em;text-transform:uppercase;}.x-navbar .desktop .x-nav \u003e li \u003e a{font-size:14px;}.x-navbar .desktop .x-nav \u003e li \u003e a:not(.x-btn-navbar-woocommerce){padding-left:14px;padding-right:14px;}.x-navbar .desktop .x-nav \u003e li \u003e a \u003e span{margin-right:-0.071em;}.x-btn-navbar{margin-top:18px;}.x-btn-navbar,.x-btn-navbar.collapsed{font-size:18px;}@media (max-width:979px){body.x-navbar-fixed-top-active .x-navbar-wrap{height:auto;}.x-widgetbar{left:0;right:0;}}.x-colophon.bottom{background-color:#373737;}.x-colophon.bottom,.x-colophon.bottom a,.x-colophon.bottom .x-social-global a{color:#ffffff;}.bg .mejs-container,.x-video .mejs-container{position:unset !important;} @font-face{font-family:'FontAwesomePro';font-style:normal;font-weight:900;font-display:block;src:url('https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/cornerstone/assets/fonts/fa-solid-900.woff2?ver=6.7.2') format('woff2'),url('https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/cornerstone/assets/fonts/fa-solid-900.ttf?ver=6.7.2') format('truetype');}[data-x-fa-pro-icon]{font-family:\"FontAwesomePro\" !important;}[data-x-fa-pro-icon]:before{content:attr(data-x-fa-pro-icon);}[data-x-icon],[data-x-icon-o],[data-x-icon-l],[data-x-icon-s],[data-x-icon-b],[data-x-icon-sr],[data-x-icon-ss],[data-x-icon-sl],[data-x-fa-pro-icon],[class*=\"cs-fa-\"]{display:inline-flex;font-style:normal;font-weight:400;text-decoration:inherit;text-rendering:auto;-webkit-font-smoothing:antialiased;-moz-osx-font-smoothing:grayscale;}[data-x-icon].left,[data-x-icon-o].left,[data-x-icon-l].left,[data-x-icon-s].left,[data-x-icon-b].left,[data-x-icon-sr].left,[data-x-icon-ss].left,[data-x-icon-sl].left,[data-x-fa-pro-icon].left,[class*=\"cs-fa-\"].left{margin-right:0.5em;}[data-x-icon].right,[data-x-icon-o].right,[data-x-icon-l].right,[data-x-icon-s].right,[data-x-icon-b].right,[data-x-icon-sr].right,[data-x-icon-ss].right,[data-x-icon-sl].right,[data-x-fa-pro-icon].right,[class*=\"cs-fa-\"].right{margin-left:0.5em;}[data-x-icon]:before,[data-x-icon-o]:before,[data-x-icon-l]:before,[data-x-icon-s]:before,[data-x-icon-b]:before,[data-x-icon-sr]:before,[data-x-icon-ss]:before,[data-x-icon-sl]:before,[data-x-fa-pro-icon]:before,[class*=\"cs-fa-\"]:before{line-height:1;}@font-face{font-family:'FontAwesome';font-style:normal;font-weight:900;font-display:block;src:url('https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/cornerstone/assets/fonts/fa-solid-900.woff2?ver=6.7.2') format('woff2'),url('https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/cornerstone/assets/fonts/fa-solid-900.ttf?ver=6.7.2') format('truetype');}[data-x-icon],[data-x-icon-s],[data-x-icon][class*=\"cs-fa-\"]{font-family:\"FontAwesome\" !important;font-weight:900;}[data-x-icon]:before,[data-x-icon][class*=\"cs-fa-\"]:before{content:attr(data-x-icon);}[data-x-icon-s]:before{content:attr(data-x-icon-s);}@font-face{font-family:'FontAwesomeRegular';font-style:normal;font-weight:400;font-display:block;src:url('https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/cornerstone/assets/fonts/fa-regular-400.woff2?ver=6.7.2') format('woff2'),url('https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/cornerstone/assets/fonts/fa-regular-400.ttf?ver=6.7.2') format('truetype');}@font-face{font-family:'FontAwesomePro';font-style:normal;font-weight:400;font-display:block;src:url('https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/cornerstone/assets/fonts/fa-regular-400.woff2?ver=6.7.2') format('woff2'),url('https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/cornerstone/assets/fonts/fa-regular-400.ttf?ver=6.7.2') format('truetype');}[data-x-icon-o]{font-family:\"FontAwesomeRegular\" !important;}[data-x-icon-o]:before{content:attr(data-x-icon-o);}@font-face{font-family:'FontAwesomeLight';font-style:normal;font-weight:300;font-display:block;src:url('https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/cornerstone/assets/fonts/fa-light-300.woff2?ver=6.7.2') format('woff2'),url('https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/cornerstone/assets/fonts/fa-light-300.ttf?ver=6.7.2') format('truetype');}@font-face{font-family:'FontAwesomePro';font-style:normal;font-weight:300;font-display:block;src:url('https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/cornerstone/assets/fonts/fa-light-300.woff2?ver=6.7.2') format('woff2'),url('https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/cornerstone/assets/fonts/fa-light-300.ttf?ver=6.7.2') format('truetype');}[data-x-icon-l]{font-family:\"FontAwesomeLight\" !important;font-weight:300;}[data-x-icon-l]:before{content:attr(data-x-icon-l);}@font-face{font-family:'FontAwesomeBrands';font-style:normal;font-weight:normal;font-display:block;src:url('https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/cornerstone/assets/fonts/fa-brands-400.woff2?ver=6.7.2') format('woff2'),url('https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/cornerstone/assets/fonts/fa-brands-400.ttf?ver=6.7.2') format('truetype');}[data-x-icon-b]{font-family:\"FontAwesomeBrands\" !important;}[data-x-icon-b]:before{content:attr(data-x-icon-b);}.widget.widget_rss li .rsswidget:before{content:\"\\f35d\";padding-right:0.4em;font-family:\"FontAwesome\";} .m6ev-0.x-section{margin-top:0px;margin-right:0px;margin-bottom:0px;margin-left:0px;border-top-width:0;border-right-width:0;border-bottom-width:0;border-left-width:0;}.m6ev-1.x-section{padding-top:3em;background-color:rgb(18,30,53);}.m6ev-1 \u003e .x-bg \u003e .x-bg-layer-upper-color {background-color:rgba(1,4,17,0.55);}.m6ev-2.x-section{padding-right:0em;padding-bottom:3em;padding-left:0em;}.m6ev-3.x-section{z-index:1;}.m6ev-5.x-section{padding-top:45px;}.m6ev-6.x-section{padding-right:0px;padding-left:0px;}.m6ev-7.x-section{padding-bottom:45px;}.m6ev-8.x-section{z-index:auto;}.m6ev-9.x-section{background-color:rgb(0,0,0);}.m6ev-a.x-section{padding-top:0em;}.m6ev-a \u003e .x-bg \u003e .x-bg-layer-lower-image {background-image:url(https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/addisonBg-scaled.jpg);}.m6ev-a \u003e .x-bg \u003e .x-bg-layer-upper-color {background-color:rgba(3,3,3,0.75);}.m6ev-b \u003e .x-bg \u003e .x-bg-layer-lower-image {background-repeat:no-repeat;background-position:center;background-size:cover;background-attachment:inherit;}.m6ev-c \u003e .x-bg \u003e .x-bg-layer-lower-image {background-image:url(https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/InteliWound.jpg);}.m6ev-c \u003e .x-bg \u003e .x-bg-layer-upper-color {background-color:rgba(0,0,0,0.63);}.m6ev-d.x-section{padding-top:0px;}.m6ev-e.x-section{padding-bottom:0px;}.m6ev-f.x-section{background-color:rgb(243,243,243);}.m6ev-g \u003e .x-bg \u003e .x-bg-layer-lower-image {background-image:url(https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/rwbg_1.jpg);}.m6ev-g \u003e .x-bg \u003e .x-bg-layer-upper-color {background-color:rgba(9,9,9,0.81);}.m6ev-h \u003e .x-bg \u003e .x-bg-layer-lower-image {background-image:url(https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/04/ussdr_small_cropped.jpg);}.m6ev-h \u003e .x-bg \u003e .x-bg-layer-upper-color {background-color:rgba(20,19,19,0.78);}.m6ev-i \u003e .x-bg \u003e .x-bg-layer-lower-image {background-image:url(https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/powerBILaptopCropped.png);}.m6ev-i \u003e .x-bg \u003e .x-bg-layer-upper-color {background-color:rgba(3,3,3,0.84);}.m6ev-j \u003e .x-bg \u003e .x-bg-layer-lower-image {background-image:url(https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/c1490e94-2f06-446b-9823-d4fa484844e6.jpg);}.m6ev-j \u003e .x-bg \u003e .x-bg-layer-upper-color {background-color:hsla(0,0%,0%,0.6);}.m6ev-k.x-section{background-color:rgb(255,255,255);}.m6ev-l.x-section{background-color:rgb(24,24,24);}.m6ev-n.x-container{border-top-width:0;border-right-width:0;border-bottom-width:0;border-left-width:0;box-shadow:none;z-index:1;}.m6ev-o.x-container{text-align:center;}.m6ev-p.x-container{margin-top:0em;}.m6ev-q.x-container{margin-right:auto;margin-left:auto;}.m6ev-r.x-container{margin-bottom:0em;}.m6ev-s.x-container{margin-top:2em;}.m6ev-t.x-container{margin-top:1em;}.m6ev-u.x-container{margin-bottom:1em;}.m6ev-v.x-column{border-top-width:0;border-right-width:0;border-bottom-width:0;border-left-width:0;box-shadow:none;}.m6ev-w.x-column{padding-top:2em;}.m6ev-x.x-column{padding-right:2em;padding-bottom:2em;padding-left:2em;}.m6ev-y.x-column{text-align:left;}.m6ev-z.x-column{z-index:1;}.m6ev-11.x-column{z-index:auto;}.m6ev-12.x-column{padding-right:0em;padding-bottom:0em;padding-left:0em;}.m6ev-13.x-column{text-align:center;}.m6ev-14.x-column{padding-top:1em;}.m6ev-15.x-column{padding-right:1em;padding-bottom:1em;padding-left:1em;}.m6ev-16{padding-top:20px;}.m6ev-17{padding-right:0;padding-bottom:0;padding-left:0;font-size:1em;}.m6ev-18{padding-top:10px;}.m6ev-19{padding-top:40px;}.m6ev-1b.x-text{border-top-width:0;border-right-width:0;border-bottom-width:0;border-left-width:0;font-style:normal;text-transform:none;}.m6ev-1b.x-text \u003e :first-child{margin-top:0;}.m6ev-1b.x-text \u003e :last-child{margin-bottom:0;}.m6ev-1d.x-text{font-family:Helvetica,Arial,sans-serif;font-weight:400;}.m6ev-1e.x-text{font-size:1em;}.m6ev-1f.x-text{line-height:1.4;}.m6ev-1g.x-text{letter-spacing:0em;}.m6ev-1h.x-text{color:rgb(255,255,255);}.m6ev-1i.x-text{margin-top:0.4em;text-align:center;}.m6ev-1j.x-text{margin-right:0em;margin-left:0em;}.m6ev-1k.x-text{margin-bottom:2em;}.m6ev-1l.x-text{font-family:inherit;}.m6ev-1m.x-text{font-weight:inherit;}.m6ev-1n.x-text{margin-top:0.5em;}.m6ev-1o.x-text{margin-bottom:0em;}.m6ev-1p.x-text{font-size:1.2em;}.m6ev-1q.x-text{line-height:1.3;}.m6ev-1r.x-text{margin-top:2em;}.m6ev-1s.x-text{font-size:1.4em;}.m6ev-1t.x-text{color:rgba(0,0,0,1);}.m6ev-1u.x-text{padding-top:2em;padding-right:2em;padding-bottom:2em;padding-left:2em;}.m6ev-1v.x-text{font-weight:600;color:rgb(62,61,61);}.m6ev-1w.x-text{font-size:1.79em;font-weight:700;}.m6ev-1x.x-text{line-height:1.2;letter-spacing:0.01100000000000001em;}.m6ev-1y.x-text{margin-top:1em;}.m6ev-1z.x-text{color:rgb(252,252,252);}.m6ev-20.x-text{font-size:0.9em;text-align:left;color:rgb(154,154,154);}.m6ev-21.x-text{font-size:0.75em;color:rgb(195,2,2);}.m6ev-22.x-anchor {margin-top:0.5em;border-top-left-radius:20px;border-top-right-radius:20px;border-bottom-right-radius:20px;border-bottom-left-radius:20px;background-color:rgb(7,156,43);}.m6ev-22.x-anchor .x-anchor-content {padding-top:0.275em;padding-bottom:0.275em;}.m6ev-22.x-anchor:hover,.m6ev-22.x-anchor[class*=\"active\"],[data-x-effect-provider*=\"colors\"]:hover .m6ev-22.x-anchor {background-color:rgb(28,131,84);}.m6ev-22.x-anchor .x-anchor-text {margin-top:20px;margin-right:10px;margin-bottom:20px;margin-left:10px;}.m6ev-22.x-anchor .x-anchor-text-primary {font-size:1.415em;}.m6ev-22.x-anchor:hover .x-anchor-text-primary,.m6ev-22.x-anchor[class*=\"active\"] .x-anchor-text-primary,[data-x-effect-provider*=\"colors\"]:hover .m6ev-22.x-anchor .x-anchor-text-primary {color:rgba(255,255,255,0.5);}.m6ev-22.x-anchor:hover .x-anchor-text-secondary,.m6ev-22.x-anchor[class*=\"active\"] .x-anchor-text-secondary,[data-x-effect-provider*=\"colors\"]:hover .m6ev-22.x-anchor .x-anchor-text-secondary {color:rgba(252,252,252,0.5);}.m6ev-23.x-anchor {margin-right:0em;margin-bottom:0em;margin-left:0em;font-size:1em;}.m6ev-24.x-anchor {border-top-width:0;border-right-width:0;border-bottom-width:0;border-left-width:0;box-shadow:0em 0.15em 0.65em 0em rgba(0,0,0,0.25);}.m6ev-24.x-anchor .x-anchor-content {display:flex;flex-direction:row;justify-content:center;align-items:center;padding-right:0.85em;padding-left:0.85em;}.m6ev-24.x-anchor .x-anchor-text-primary {font-family:inherit;font-style:normal;font-weight:inherit;line-height:1;color:rgb(255,255,255);}.m6ev-25.x-anchor .x-anchor-text-primary {text-align:center;}.m6ev-25.x-anchor .x-anchor-text-secondary {margin-top:0.35em;font-family:inherit;font-size:0.75em;font-style:normal;font-weight:inherit;line-height:1;text-align:center;color:rgb(255,255,255);}.m6ev-26.x-anchor {margin-top:2em;background-color:rgb(224,19,19);}.m6ev-26.x-anchor:hover,.m6ev-26.x-anchor[class*=\"active\"],[data-x-effect-provider*=\"colors\"]:hover .m6ev-26.x-anchor {background-color:rgb(184,15,15);}.m6ev-26.x-anchor:hover .x-anchor-text-primary,.m6ev-26.x-anchor[class*=\"active\"] .x-anchor-text-primary,[data-x-effect-provider*=\"colors\"]:hover .m6ev-26.x-anchor .x-anchor-text-primary {color:rgba(255,255,255,0.96);}.m6ev-27.x-anchor {border-top-left-radius:0.35em;border-top-right-radius:0.35em;border-bottom-right-radius:0.35em;border-bottom-left-radius:0.35em;}.m6ev-27.x-anchor .x-anchor-content {padding-top:0.575em;padding-bottom:0.575em;}.m6ev-27.x-anchor .x-anchor-text {margin-top:5px;margin-right:5px;margin-bottom:5px;margin-left:5px;}.m6ev-27.x-anchor .x-anchor-text-primary {font-size:1em;}.m6ev-28.x-anchor {margin-top:1em;background-color:rgb(231,156,6);}.m6ev-28.x-anchor:hover,.m6ev-28.x-anchor[class*=\"active\"],[data-x-effect-provider*=\"colors\"]:hover .m6ev-28.x-anchor {background-color:rgb(231,154,9);}.m6ev-28.x-anchor:hover .x-anchor-text-primary,.m6ev-28.x-anchor[class*=\"active\"] .x-anchor-text-primary,[data-x-effect-provider*=\"colors\"]:hover .m6ev-28.x-anchor .x-anchor-text-primary {color:rgba(52,51,51,0.5);}.m6ev-29.x-anchor {font-size:1.1400000000000001em;background-color:rgb(244,156,61);}.m6ev-29.x-anchor:hover,.m6ev-29.x-anchor[class*=\"active\"],[data-x-effect-provider*=\"colors\"]:hover .m6ev-29.x-anchor {background-color:rgb(244,154,32);}.m6ev-29.x-anchor:hover .x-anchor-text-primary,.m6ev-29.x-anchor[class*=\"active\"] .x-anchor-text-primary,[data-x-effect-provider*=\"colors\"]:hover .m6ev-29.x-anchor .x-anchor-text-primary {color:rgba(249,249,249,0.5);}.m6ev-29.x-anchor:hover .x-anchor-text-secondary,.m6ev-29.x-anchor[class*=\"active\"] .x-anchor-text-secondary,[data-x-effect-provider*=\"colors\"]:hover .m6ev-29.x-anchor .x-anchor-text-secondary {color:rgba(239,239,239,0.5);}.m6ev-2a.x-row{z-index:auto;}.m6ev-2c.x-row{margin-right:auto;margin-left:auto;border-top-width:0;border-right-width:0;border-bottom-width:0;border-left-width:0;padding-top:1px;padding-right:1px;padding-bottom:1px;padding-left:1px;font-size:1em;}.m6ev-2c \u003e .x-row-inner{flex-direction:row;}.m6ev-2d \u003e .x-row-inner{justify-content:flex-start;align-items:stretch;align-content:stretch;margin-top:calc(((1rem / 2) + 1px) * -1);margin-right:calc(((1rem / 2) + 1px) * -1);margin-bottom:calc(((1rem / 2) + 1px) * -1);margin-left:calc(((1rem / 2) + 1px) * -1);}.m6ev-2d \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *{margin-top:calc(1rem / 2);margin-bottom:calc(1rem / 2);margin-right:calc(1rem / 2);margin-left:calc(1rem / 2);}.m6ev-2e \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *{flex-grow:1;}.m6ev-2f.x-row{margin-top:20px;}.m6ev-2g.x-row{margin-bottom:0px;}.m6ev-2h.x-row{z-index:1;margin-top:0px;}.m6ev-2i \u003e .x-row-inner{justify-content:center;align-items:center;align-content:center;margin-top:calc(((1.1rem / 2) + 1px) * -1);margin-right:calc(((0.35rem / 2) + 1px) * -1);margin-bottom:calc(((1.1rem / 2) + 1px) * -1);margin-left:calc(((0.35rem / 2) + 1px) * -1);}.m6ev-2i \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *{margin-top:calc(1.1rem / 2);margin-bottom:calc(1.1rem / 2);margin-right:calc(0.35rem / 2);margin-left:calc(0.35rem / 2);}.m6ev-2j.x-row{text-align:center;}.m6ev-2k{--gap:1rem;}.m6ev-2l \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(1n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(100% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2m \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(4n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(25% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2m \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(4n - 1) {flex-basis:calc(25% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2m \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(4n - 2) {flex-basis:calc(26% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2m \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(4n - 3) {flex-basis:calc(24% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2n \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(4n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(25% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2n \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(4n - 1) {flex-basis:calc(25% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2n \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(4n - 2) {flex-basis:calc(26% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2n \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(4n - 3) {flex-basis:calc(24% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2o \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(1n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(100% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2p \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(3n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(25% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2p \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(3n - 1) {flex-basis:calc(50% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2p \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(3n - 2) {flex-basis:calc(25% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2q \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(1n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(100% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2r \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(2n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(33.33% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2r \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(2n - 1) {flex-basis:calc(66.66% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2s \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(1n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(100% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2t \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(2n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(66.66% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2t \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(2n - 1) {flex-basis:calc(33.33% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2u \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(1n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(100% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2v \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(2n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(66.66% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2v \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(2n - 1) {flex-basis:calc(33.33% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2w \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(1n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(100% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2x \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(2n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(33.33% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2x \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(2n - 1) {flex-basis:calc(66.66% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2y{--gap:0.35rem;}.m6ev-2y \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(2n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(33.33% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2y \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(2n - 1) {flex-basis:calc(66.66% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2z \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(1n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(100% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-30 \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(1n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(100% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-31.x-col{z-index:1;border-top-width:0;border-right-width:0;border-bottom-width:0;border-left-width:0;font-size:1em;}.m6ev-33.x-col{text-align:center;}.m6ev-34.x-col{display:flex;flex-direction:column;justify-content:flex-start;align-items:flex-start;flex-wrap:wrap;align-content:flex-start;}.m6ev-35.x-col{padding-top:0em;padding-right:0px;padding-bottom:0px;padding-left:4em;}.m6ev-36.x-image{font-size:1em;border-top-width:0;border-right-width:0;border-bottom-width:0;border-left-width:0;}.m6ev-36.x-image img{aspect-ratio:auto;}.m6ev-37.x-image{margin-top:20px;}.m6ev-38.x-image{margin-right:20px;margin-bottom:20px;margin-left:20px;}.m6ev-3c.x-image{padding-top:20px;padding-right:20px;padding-bottom:20px;padding-left:20px;}.m6ev-3d.x-image{margin-top:30px;}.m6ev-3e.x-image{margin-right:0px;margin-left:0px;}.m6ev-3f.x-image{margin-bottom:0px;}.m6ev-3g.x-image{background-color:transparent;}.m6ev-3h.x-image{width:700px;max-width:1000px;}.m6ev-3i.x-image img{width:100%;}.m6ev-3j.x-image{margin-top:10px;}.m6ev-3k.x-image{width:75px;}.m6ev-3k.x-image img{object-position:25% 25%;}.m6ev-3k.x-image,.m6ev-3k.x-image img{height:75px;}.m6ev-3l.x-image{padding-top:10px;padding-right:10px;padding-bottom:10px;padding-left:10px;background-color:rgb(63,62,62);}.m6ev-3l.x-image:hover,.m6ev-3l.x-image[class*=\"active\"],[data-x-effect-provider*=\"colors\"]:hover .m6ev-3l.x-image{background-color:transparent;}.m6ev-3m.x-image{width:32px;margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:10px;}.m6ev-3n.x-image{width:64px;margin-top:-1em;margin-right:0em;margin-bottom:0em;margin-left:2em;}.m6ev-3o{margin-top:1.5em;margin-right:0em;margin-bottom:0em;margin-left:0em;border-top-width:0;border-right-width:0;border-bottom-width:0;border-left-width:0;border-top-left-radius:0;border-top-right-radius:0;border-bottom-right-radius:0;border-bottom-left-radius:0;padding-top:0;padding-right:0;padding-bottom:0;padding-left:0;font-size:0.9em;}.m6ev-3o .x-quote-text{font-family:inherit;font-size:1em;font-style:italic;font-weight:inherit;line-height:1.4;text-align:center;color:rgb(188,42,42);}.m6ev-3o .x-quote-cite{display:flex;flex-direction:row;justify-content:center;align-items:center;margin-top:0.75em;margin-right:0em;margin-bottom:0em;margin-left:0em;border-top-width:0;border-right-width:0;border-bottom-width:0;border-left-width:0;font-family:inherit;font-size:0.75em;font-style:normal;font-weight:inherit;line-height:1.3;letter-spacing:0.25em;text-align:center;text-transform:uppercase;color:rgba(0,0,0,1);}.m6ev-3o .x-quote-cite-text{margin-right:calc(0.25em * -1);}.m6ev-3p.x-text{border-top-width:0;border-right-width:0;border-bottom-width:0;border-left-width:0;font-size:1em;}.m6ev-3p.x-text .x-text-content-text-primary{font-family:Helvetica,Arial,sans-serif;font-size:1em;font-style:normal;font-weight:700;line-height:1.4;letter-spacing:0.03em;margin-right:calc(0.03em * -1);text-transform:none;color:rgb(255,255,255);}@media screen and (max-width:1199px){.m6ev-2m \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(4n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(25% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2m \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(4n - 1) {flex-basis:calc(25% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2m \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(4n - 2) {flex-basis:calc(25% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2m \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(4n - 3) {flex-basis:calc(25% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2n \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(4n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(25% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2n \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(4n - 1) {flex-basis:calc(25% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2n \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(4n - 2) {flex-basis:calc(25% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2n \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(4n - 3) {flex-basis:calc(25% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2q \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(2n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(66.66% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2q \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(2n - 1) {flex-basis:calc(33.33% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}}@media screen and (max-width:978px){.m6ev-2q \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(1n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(100% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2s \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(2n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(33.33% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2s \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(2n - 1) {flex-basis:calc(66.66% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}}@media screen and (max-width:766px){.m6ev-2m \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(2n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(50% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2m \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(2n - 1) {flex-basis:calc(50% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2n \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(2n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(50% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2n \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(2n - 1) {flex-basis:calc(50% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2p \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(2n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(50% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2p \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(2n - 1) {flex-basis:calc(50% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2r \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(2n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(50% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2r \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(2n - 1) {flex-basis:calc(50% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2s \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(2n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(50% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2s \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(2n - 1) {flex-basis:calc(50% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2t \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(2n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(50% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2t \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(2n - 1) {flex-basis:calc(50% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2v \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(2n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(50% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2v \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(2n - 1) {flex-basis:calc(50% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2x \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(2n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(50% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2x \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(2n - 1) {flex-basis:calc(50% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2y \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(2n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(50% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2y \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(2n - 1) {flex-basis:calc(50% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}}@media screen and (max-width:479px){.m6ev-2m \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(1n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(100% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2n \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(1n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(100% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2p \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(1n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(100% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2r \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(1n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(100% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2s \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(1n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(100% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2t \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(1n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(100% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2v \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(1n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(100% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2x \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(1n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(100% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}.m6ev-2y \u003e .x-row-inner \u003e *:nth-child(1n - 0) {flex-basis:calc(100% - clamp(0px,var(--gap),9999px));}} @media only screen and (max-width:600px){.pop{font-size:2em;margin-top:20px;font-weight:700;letter-spacing:0.3px}h4,h5{font-size:20px;}}@media only screen and (min-width:600px){.pop{font-size:2em;margin-top:20px;font-weight:700;letter-spacing:0.3px}h4,h5{font-size:20px;}}@media only screen and (min-width:768px){.pop{font-size:3.5em;margin-top:60px;font-weight:700;letter-spacing:0.3px}}.style-head{font-family:'Poppins',sans-serif;}.text-white h2,.text-white h2 a,.text-white h2 a:hover,.text-white p,.text-white .x-btn{color:#fff;}.text-white .x-btn{border-color:#fff;}.text-white h2 a:hover,.text-white .x-btn:hover{opacity:0.75;}.x-flexslider{background-color:transparent;}.f20{font-size:20px;}.f18{font-size:18px;}.accent-font1{font-family:'Pacifico' !important;}.light{color:#fff;}.accent1{color:#CF6363;}.mt0{margin-top:0;}.mt10{margin-top:10px;}.mt20{margin-top:20px;}.mb0{margin-bottom:0;}.mb10{margin-bottom:10px;}.mb20{margin-bottom:20px;}.block-accent1{background-color:#CF6363;padding:5px;font-style:italic;}.block-dark{background-color:#000;color:#fff;padding:5px;font-style:italic;}.ease-in-anim{-webkit-transition:all 600ms ease-in-out,visibility 1ms;transition:all 600ms ease-in-out,visibility 1ms;}.show-anim{transition:opacity .3s,visibility .3s;-webkit-transition:opacity .3s,visibility .3s;}.white{color:#ffffff;}.f18{font-size:18px;}.blockheading{margin-bottom:10px;margin-top:0;transition:0.25s ease-out;}.blockheading:hover{transform:scale(1.05);}.blockheading span{padding:2px;font-weight:800;display:table;background-color:#fff;}.bottom-heading-box{top:1;width:50%;left:25%;margin-top:1em;border-top:2px solid #CF6363;}.acc-text{display:flex;flex-direction:column;align-items:center;align-content:center;padding:4em}.acc-heading{padding:0;margin:0;}.svgcls-13,.svgcls-2,.svgcls-3{animation-name:oscillate;animation-duration:5s;animation-iteration-count:infinite;animation-timing-function:ease-in-out;}.svgcls-14{animation-name:r-oscillate;animation-duration:5s;animation-iteration-count:infinite;animation-timing-function:ease-in-out;}.svgcls-7,.svgcls-4,.svgcls-6,.svgcls-5,.svgcls-8,.svgcls-9,.svgcls-10,.svgcls-11,.svgcls-12{animation-name:leftRight;animation-duration:10s;animation-iteration-count:infinite;animation-timing-function:ease-in-out;}@keyframes oscillate{0%{transform:translateY(-15px);}50%{transform:translateY(0px);}100%{transform:translateY(-15px);}}@keyframes r-oscillate{0%{transform:translateY(15px);}50%{transform:translateY(0px);}100%{transform:translateY(15px);}}@keyframes leftRight{0%{transform:translateX(-5px);}50%{transform:translateX(0px);}100%{transform:translateX(-5px);}}.purple-pill{background-color:#750fff;color:#ffffff;border-radius:20px;float:left;text-transform:uppercase;font-size:14px;padding:5px 15px;}\n\u003c/style\u003e\n\u003cscript type=\"text/javascript\" src=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-includes/js/jquery/jquery.min.js?ver=3.7.1\" id=\"jquery-core-js\"\u003e\u003c/script\u003e\n\u003cscript type=\"text/javascript\" src=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-includes/js/jquery/jquery-migrate.min.js?ver=3.4.1\" id=\"jquery-migrate-js\"\u003e\u003c/script\u003e\n\u003cscript type=\"text/javascript\" id=\"layerslider-utils-js-extra\"\u003e\n/* \u003c![CDATA[ */\nvar LS_Meta = {\"v\":\"7.15.1\",\"fixGSAP\":\"1\"};\n\n\u003c/script\u003e\n\u003cscript type=\"text/javascript\" src=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/LayerSlider/assets/static/layerslider/js/layerslider.utils.js?ver=7.15.1\" id=\"layerslider-utils-js\"\u003e\u003c/script\u003e\n\u003cscript type=\"text/javascript\" src=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/LayerSlider/assets/static/layerslider/js/layerslider.kreaturamedia.jquery.js?ver=7.15.1\" id=\"layerslider-js\"\u003e\u003c/script\u003e\n\u003cscript type=\"text/javascript\" src=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/LayerSlider/assets/static/layerslider/js/layerslider.transitions.js?ver=7.15.1\" id=\"layerslider-transitions-js\"\u003e\u003c/script\u003e\n\u003cscript type=\"text/javascript\" src=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/google-analytics-dashboard-for-wp/assets/js/frontend-gtag.js?ver=8.7.4\" id=\"exactmetrics-frontend-script-js\" async=\"async\" data-wp-strategy=\"async\"\u003e\u003c/script\u003e\n\u003cscript data-cfasync=\"false\" data-wpfc-render=\"false\" type=\"text/javascript\" id='exactmetrics-frontend-script-js-extra'\u003e/* \u003c![CDATA[ */\nvar exactmetrics_frontend = {\"js_events_tracking\":\"true\",\"download_extensions\":\"zip,mp3,mpeg,pdf,docx,pptx,xlsx,rar\",\"inbound_paths\":\"[{\\\"path\\\":\\\"\\\\\\/go\\\\\\/\\\",\\\"label\\\":\\\"affiliate\\\"},{\\\"path\\\":\\\"\\\\\\/recommend\\\\\\/\\\",\\\"label\\\":\\\"affiliate\\\"},{\\\"path\\\":\\\"\\\\\\/out\\\\\\/\\\",\\\"label\\\":\\\"Affiliate\\\"}]\",\"home_url\":\"https:\\/\\/www.hypertrends.com\",\"hash_tracking\":\"true\",\"v4_id\":\"G-BE3P29EN2J\"};\n\u003c/script\u003e\n\u003cscript type=\"text/javascript\" src=\"//www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/revslider/sr6/assets/js/rbtools.min.js?ver=6.7.37\" async id=\"tp-tools-js\"\u003e\u003c/script\u003e\n\u003cscript type=\"text/javascript\" src=\"//www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/revslider/sr6/assets/js/rs6.min.js?ver=6.7.37\" async id=\"revmin-js\"\u003e\u003c/script\u003e\n\u003cmeta name=\"generator\" content=\"Powered by LayerSlider 7.15.1 - Build Heros, Sliders, and Popups. Create Animations and Beautiful, Rich Web Content as Easy as Never Before on WordPress.\" /\u003e\r\n\u003c!-- LayerSlider updates and docs at: https://layerslider.com --\u003e\r\n\u003clink rel=\"https://api.w.org/\" href=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-json/\" /\u003e\u003clink rel=\"alternate\" title=\"JSON\" type=\"application/json\" href=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-json/wp/v2/pages/8311\" /\u003e\u003clink rel='shortlink' href='https://www.hypertrends.com/' /\u003e\n\u003clink rel=\"alternate\" title=\"oEmbed (JSON)\" type=\"application/json+oembed\" href=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-json/oembed/1.0/embed?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.hypertrends.com%2F\" /\u003e\n\u003clink rel=\"alternate\" title=\"oEmbed (XML)\" type=\"text/xml+oembed\" href=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-json/oembed/1.0/embed?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.hypertrends.com%2F\u0026#038;format=xml\" /\u003e\n\u003c!-- Facebook Pixel Code --\u003e\r\n\u003cscript\u003e\r\n  !function(f,b,e,v,n,t,s)\r\n  {if(f.fbq)return;n=f.fbq=function(){n.callMethod?\r\n  n.callMethod.apply(n,arguments):n.queue.push(arguments)};\r\n  if(!f._fbq)f._fbq=n;n.push=n;n.loaded=!0;n.version='2.0';\r\n  n.queue=[];t=b.createElement(e);t.async=!0;\r\n  t.src=v;s=b.getElementsByTagName(e)[0];\r\n  s.parentNode.insertBefore(t,s)}(window, document,'script',\r\n  'https://connect.facebook.net/en_US/fbevents.js');\r\n  fbq('init', '1570779819914402');\r\n  fbq('track', 'PageView');\r\n\u003c/script\u003e\r\n\u003cnoscript\u003e\u003cimg height=\"1\" width=\"1\" style=\"display:none\"\r\n  src=\"https://www.facebook.com/tr?id=1570779819914402\u0026ev=PageView\u0026noscript=1\"\r\n/\u003e\u003c/noscript\u003e\r\n\u003c!-- End Facebook Pixel Code --\u003e\r\n\r\n\u003c!-- Global site tag (gtag.js) - Google Analytics --\u003e\r\n\u003cscript async src=\"https://www.googletagmanager.com/gtag/js?id=UA-5598670-1\"\u003e\u003c/script\u003e\r\n\u003cscript\u003e\r\n  window.dataLayer = window.dataLayer || [];\r\n  function gtag(){dataLayer.push(arguments);}\r\n  gtag('js', new Date());\r\n\r\n  gtag('config', 'UA-5598670-1');\r\n\u003c/script\u003e\r\n\u003cscript type=\"text/javascript\" src=\"https://static1.clutch.co/api/widget.js\"/\u003e\r\n\r\n\u003cscript type=\"application/ld+json\"\u003e\r\n{\r\n    \"@context\": \"http://schema.org\",\r\n    \"@type\": \"Organization\",\r\n    \"name\": \"hypertrends.com\",\r\n    \"url\": \"hypertrends.com\",\r\n    \"aggregateRating\":\r\n    {\r\n    \"@type\": \"AggregateRating\",\r\n    \"worstRating\": \"1\",\r\n    \"bestRating\" : \"5\",\r\n    \"ratingValue\": \"5\",\r\n    \"reviewCount\": \"5\"\r\n    },\r\n    \"review\":[\r\n        {\r\n            \"@type\":\"Review\",\r\n            \"reviewBody\":\"HyperTrends Global Inc. was honest, trustworthy, and simple.\",\r\n            \"author\":{\r\n                \"@type\":\"Person\",\r\n                \"name\":\"Masud\"\r\n            },\r\n            \"reviewRating\":{\r\n                \"@type\":\"Rating\",\r\n                \"bestRating\":\"5\",\r\n                \"ratingValue\":\"5.0\"\r\n            },\r\n            \"publisher\":{\r\n                \"@type\":\"Organization\",\r\n                \"name\":\"Foundation Escrow\"\r\n            }\r\n        },                \r\n        {\r\n            \"@type\":\"Review\",\r\n            \"reviewBody\":\"They did everything within our budget, which is a feat in the development world. We had a great experience overall.\",\r\n            \"author\":{\r\n                \"@type\":\"Person\",\r\n                \"name\":\"Les\"\r\n            },\r\n            \"reviewRating\":{\r\n                \"@type\":\"Rating\",\r\n                \"bestRating\":\"5\",\r\n                \"ratingValue\":\"5.0\"\r\n            },\r\n            \"publisher\":{\r\n                \"@type\":\"Organization\",\r\n                \"name\":\"JacobTyler\"\r\n            }\r\n        },                \r\n        {\r\n            \"@type\":\"Review\",\r\n            \"reviewBody\":\"HyperTrends helped us transform previously lengthy tasks into easy, seamless processes.\",\r\n            \"author\":{\r\n                \"@type\":\"Person\",\r\n                \"name\":\"J.C.\"\r\n            },\r\n            \"reviewRating\":{\r\n                \"@type\":\"Rating\",\r\n                \"bestRating\":\"5\",\r\n                \"ratingValue\":\"5.0\"\r\n            },\r\n            \"publisher\":{\r\n                \"@type\":\"Organization\",\r\n                \"name\":\"BluAgent\"\r\n            }\r\n        }]\r\n    }\r\n\u003c/script\u003e\r\n\r\n\u003cscript\u003e\r\n  (function () {\r\n    var s = document.createElement('script');\r\n    s.type = 'text/javascript';\r\n    s.async = true;\r\n    s.src = 'https://app.termly.io/embed.min.js';\r\n    s.id = '70243bad-5f94-42f4-8796-57956b94320b';\r\n    s.setAttribute(\"data-name\", \"termly-embed-banner\");\r\n    var x = document.getElementsByTagName('script')[0];\r\n    x.parentNode.insertBefore(s, x);\r\n  })();\r\n\u003c/script\u003e\r\n\u003clink rel=\"preconnect\" href=\"https://fonts.gstatic.com\"\u003e\r\n\u003clink href=\"https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Poppins:ital,wght@0,600;0,700;0,900;1,500;1,600;1,700;1,900\u0026display=swap\" rel=\"stylesheet\"\u003e\t\t\u003cscript type=\"text/javascript\"\u003e\n\t\t\t\t(function(c,l,a,r,i,t,y){\n\t\t\t\t\tc[a]=c[a]||function(){(c[a].q=c[a].q||[]).push(arguments)};t=l.createElement(r);t.async=1;\n\t\t\t\t\tt.src=\"https://www.clarity.ms/tag/\"+i+\"?ref=wordpress\";y=l.getElementsByTagName(r)[0];y.parentNode.insertBefore(t,y);\n\t\t\t\t})(window, document, \"clarity\", \"script\", \"p2avtr7e23\");\n\t\t\u003c/script\u003e\n\t\t\n\n\u003c!-- This site is optimized with the Schema plugin v1.7.9.6 - https://schema.press --\u003e\n\u003cscript type=\"application/ld+json\"\u003e[{\"@context\":\"http:\\/\\/schema.org\\/\",\"@type\":\"WPHeader\",\"url\":\"https:\\/\\/www.hypertrends.com\",\"headline\":\"HyperTrends Global Inc.\",\"description\":\"The AI Revenue-Growth Company\"},{\"@context\":\"http:\\/\\/schema.org\\/\",\"@type\":\"WPFooter\",\"url\":\"https:\\/\\/www.hypertrends.com\",\"headline\":\"HyperTrends Global Inc.\",\"description\":\"The AI Revenue-Growth Company\",\"copyrightYear\":\"2017\"}]\u003c/script\u003e\n\n\n\n\u003c!-- This site is optimized with the Schema plugin v1.7.9.6 - https://schema.press --\u003e\n\u003cscript type=\"application/ld+json\"\u003e{\"@context\":\"https:\\/\\/schema.org\",\"@type\":\"Organization\",\"@id\":\"https:\\/\\/www.hypertrends.com#organization\",\"name\":\"HyperTrends Global Inc.\",\"url\":\"https:\\/\\/www.hypertrends.com\",\"logo\":{\"@type\":\"ImageObject\",\"url\":\"https:\\/\\/www.hypertrends.com\\/wp-content\\/uploads\\/2015\\/08\\/htLogoSquareGreen.jpg\",\"width\":320,\"height\":320,\"caption\":\"HyperTrends Web Design and Development Agency San Diego and Southern California\",\"@id\":\"https:\\/\\/www.hypertrends.com#logo\"},\"contactPoint\":{\"@type\":\"ContactPoint\",\"telephone\":\"+1 800-626-3503\",\"url\":\"https:\\/\\/www.hypertrends.com\\/contact-us\\/\",\"contactType\":\"sales\"},\"sameAs\":[\"https:\\/\\/www.facebook.com\\/hypertrendsglobal\\/\",\"https:\\/\\/twitter.com\\/hypertrends\",\"https:\\/\\/www.instagram.com\\/hypertrends\\/\",\"https:\\/\\/www.youtube.com\\/channel\\/UCa0-hlboLya06_CXbspisKQ\",\"https:\\/\\/www.linkedin.com\\/company\\/hypertrends-global-inc-\\/\"]}\u003c/script\u003e\n\n\n\u003cscript type=\"application/ld+json\"\u003e\n{\n  \"@context\": \"https://schema.org\",\n  \"@type\": \"WebSite\",\n  \"@id\": \"#website\",\n  \"name\": \"HyperTrends Global Inc.\",\n  \"alternateName\": \"HyperTrends\",\n  \"url\": \"https://www.hypertrends.com/\",\n  \"potentialAction\": {\n    \"@type\": \"SearchAction\",\n    \"target\": \"https://www.hypertrends.com/?s={search_term_string}\",\n    \"query-input\": \"required name=search_term_string\"\n  }\n}\n\u003c/script\u003e\n\n    \n    \u003cscript type=\"text/javascript\"\u003e\n        var ajaxurl = 'https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-admin/admin-ajax.php';\n    \u003c/script\u003e\n\u003cmeta name=\"generator\" content=\"Powered by Slider Revolution 6.7.37 - responsive, Mobile-Friendly Slider Plugin for WordPress with comfortable drag and drop interface.\" /\u003e\n\u003clink rel=\"icon\" href=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/08/htLogoSquareGreen-150x150.jpg\" sizes=\"32x32\" /\u003e\n\u003clink rel=\"icon\" href=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/08/htLogoSquareGreen-300x300.jpg\" sizes=\"192x192\" /\u003e\n\u003clink rel=\"apple-touch-icon\" href=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/08/htLogoSquareGreen-180x180.jpg\" /\u003e\n\u003cmeta name=\"msapplication-TileImage\" content=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/08/htLogoSquareGreen-300x300.jpg\" /\u003e\n\u003cscript\u003efunction setREVStartSize(e){\n\t\t\t//window.requestAnimationFrame(function() {\n\t\t\t\twindow.RSIW = window.RSIW===undefined ? window.innerWidth : window.RSIW;\n\t\t\t\twindow.RSIH = window.RSIH===undefined ? window.innerHeight : window.RSIH;\n\t\t\t\ttry {\n\t\t\t\t\tvar pw = document.getElementById(e.c).parentNode.offsetWidth,\n\t\t\t\t\t\tnewh;\n\t\t\t\t\tpw = pw===0 || isNaN(pw) || (e.l==\"fullwidth\" || e.layout==\"fullwidth\") ? window.RSIW : pw;\n\t\t\t\t\te.tabw = e.tabw===undefined ? 0 : parseInt(e.tabw);\n\t\t\t\t\te.thumbw = e.thumbw===undefined ? 0 : parseInt(e.thumbw);\n\t\t\t\t\te.tabh = e.tabh===undefined ? 0 : parseInt(e.tabh);\n\t\t\t\t\te.thumbh = e.thumbh===undefined ? 0 : parseInt(e.thumbh);\n\t\t\t\t\te.tabhide = e.tabhide===undefined ? 0 : parseInt(e.tabhide);\n\t\t\t\t\te.thumbhide = e.thumbhide===undefined ? 0 : parseInt(e.thumbhide);\n\t\t\t\t\te.mh = e.mh===undefined || e.mh==\"\" || e.mh===\"auto\" ? 0 : parseInt(e.mh,0);\n\t\t\t\t\tif(e.layout===\"fullscreen\" || e.l===\"fullscreen\")\n\t\t\t\t\t\tnewh = Math.max(e.mh,window.RSIH);\n\t\t\t\t\telse{\n\t\t\t\t\t\te.gw = Array.isArray(e.gw) ? e.gw : [e.gw];\n\t\t\t\t\t\tfor (var i in e.rl) if (e.gw[i]===undefined || e.gw[i]===0) e.gw[i] = e.gw[i-1];\n\t\t\t\t\t\te.gh = e.el===undefined || e.el===\"\" || (Array.isArray(e.el) \u0026\u0026 e.el.length==0)? e.gh : e.el;\n\t\t\t\t\t\te.gh = Array.isArray(e.gh) ? e.gh : [e.gh];\n\t\t\t\t\t\tfor (var i in e.rl) if (e.gh[i]===undefined || e.gh[i]===0) e.gh[i] = e.gh[i-1];\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\n\t\t\t\t\t\tvar nl = new Array(e.rl.length),\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\tix = 0,\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\tsl;\n\t\t\t\t\t\te.tabw = e.tabhide\u003e=pw ? 0 : e.tabw;\n\t\t\t\t\t\te.thumbw = e.thumbhide\u003e=pw ? 0 : e.thumbw;\n\t\t\t\t\t\te.tabh = e.tabhide\u003e=pw ? 0 : e.tabh;\n\t\t\t\t\t\te.thumbh = e.thumbhide\u003e=pw ? 0 : e.thumbh;\n\t\t\t\t\t\tfor (var i in e.rl) nl[i] = e.rl[i]\u003cwindow.RSIW ? 0 : e.rl[i];\n\t\t\t\t\t\tsl = nl[0];\n\t\t\t\t\t\tfor (var i in nl) if (sl\u003enl[i] \u0026\u0026 nl[i]\u003e0) { sl = nl[i]; ix=i;}\n\t\t\t\t\t\tvar m = pw\u003e(e.gw[ix]+e.tabw+e.thumbw) ? 1 : (pw-(e.tabw+e.thumbw)) / (e.gw[ix]);\n\t\t\t\t\t\tnewh =  (e.gh[ix] * m) + (e.tabh + e.thumbh);\n\t\t\t\t\t}\n\t\t\t\t\tvar el = document.getElementById(e.c);\n\t\t\t\t\tif (el!==null \u0026\u0026 el) el.style.height = newh+\"px\";\n\t\t\t\t\tel = document.getElementById(e.c+\"_wrapper\");\n\t\t\t\t\tif (el!==null \u0026\u0026 el) {\n\t\t\t\t\t\tel.style.height = newh+\"px\";\n\t\t\t\t\t\tel.style.display = \"block\";\n\t\t\t\t\t}\n\t\t\t\t} catch(e){\n\t\t\t\t\tconsole.log(\"Failure at Presize of Slider:\" + e)\n\t\t\t\t}\n\t\t\t//});\n\t\t  };\u003c/script\u003e\n\t\t\u003cstyle type=\"text/css\" id=\"wp-custom-css\"\u003e\n\t\t\t/*\nYou can add your own CSS here.\n\nClick the help icon above to learn more.\n*/\n\n.accent1 {\n color:#de6262;\n}\n.x-navbar-inner .x-brand img {\n    max-width: 200px;\n}\n.x-framework-icon:first-child {\n    margin-right: 0;\n}\n.mb40{\n\tmargin-bottom:40px;\n}\n.wp-dark-mode-active #mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary \u003e li.mega-menu-item \u003e a.mega-menu-link, [data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] #mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary \u003e li.mega-menu-item \u003e a.mega-menu-link, .wp-dark-mode-active .single-post .wp-block-latest-posts__post-title:not(.active_sidebar_tab), [data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] .single-post .wp-block-latest-posts__post-title:not(.active_sidebar_tab), .wp-dark-mode-active .megamenu_title, [data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] .megamenu_title{\n\t    color: #fff !important;\n}\n .wp-dark-mode-active .active_sidebar_tab,  [data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] .active_sidebar_tab{\n\t\t    color: #26292e !important;\n\n}\nhtml[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] .x-btn, html[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] .button, html[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] [type=\"submit\"], .wp-dark-mode-active .x-btn, .wp-dark-mode-active .button, .wp-dark-mode-active [type=\"submit\"] {\n    color: #bdb9b9;\n    border-color: #959595;\n}\n\n/****************** Dark Mode Css *************/\nhtml[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"],.wp-dark-mode-active{\n    background-color: #242525 ;\n}\nhtml[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] .blog-main-sec .blog-inner-title h1, .wp-dark-mode-active .blog-main-sec .blog-inner-title h1{\n    color: #f2f4f8 ;\n}\nhtml[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] .blog-main-sec .blog-inner-title p, .wp-dark-mode-active .blog-main-sec .blog-inner-title p{\n    color: #f2f4f8 ;\n}\nhtml[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] .blog-list-inner li a, .wp-dark-mode-active .blog-list-inner li a{\n    background-color: #111111 ;\n    color: #fff ;\n}\nhtml[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] .blog-list-inner li a:hover, .wp-dark-mode-active .blog-list-inner li a:hover{\n    background-color: #e2e6eb ;\n    color: #111111 ;\n}\nhtml[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] .blog-card-detail-content p span, .wp-dark-mode-active .blog-card-detail-content p span{\n    color: #858891 ;\n    border-bottom-color: #111111 ;\n}\nhtml[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] .blog-card-detail-content h2, .wp-dark-mode-active .blog-card-detail-content h2{\n    color: #f2f4f8 ;\n}\nhtml[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] .blog-card-detail-content p:last-child, .wp-dark-mode-active .blog-card-detail-content p:last-child{\n    color: #858891 ;\n}\nhtml[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] .blog-card-detail-inner:hover .blog-card-detail-content p span, .wp-dark-mode-active .blog-card-detail-inner:hover .blog-card-detail-content p span{\n    color: transparent ;\n    border-bottom-color: #f2f4f8 ;\n}\nhtml[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] .blog-card-detail-inner:hover .blog-card-detail-content p time, .wp-dark-mode-active .blog-card-detail-inner:hover .blog-card-detail-content p time{\n    color: #f2f4f8 ;\n}\nhtml[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] .blog-card-detail-inner:hover .blog-card-detail-content h2, .wp-dark-mode-active .blog-card-detail-inner:hover .blog-card-detail-content h2{\n    color: #78c021 ;\n}\nhtml[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] .blog-card-detail-inner:hover .blog-card-detail-content p:last-child, .wp-dark-mode-active .blog-card-detail-inner:hover .blog-card-detail-content p:last-child{\n    color: #f2f4f8 ;\n}\nhtml[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] .blog-card-detail-inner:hover .blog-card-detail-img img, .wp-dark-mode-active .blog-card-detail-inner:hover .blog-card-detail-img img {\n    box-shadow: 0 0 40px 5px #151515 ;\n}\nhtml[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] .blog-card-des-content h2, .wp-dark-mode-active .blog-card-des-content h2{\n    color: #f2f4f8 ;\n}\nhtml[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] .blog-card-des-content p span, .wp-dark-mode-active .blog-card-des-content p span{\n    border-bottom-color: #111111 ;\n}\nhtml[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] .blog-card-des-inner:hover .blog-card-des-content p, .wp-dark-mode-active .blog-card-des-inner:hover .blog-card-des-content p{\n    color: #f2f4f8 ;\n}\n\nhtml[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] .blog-card-des-inner:hover .blog-card-des-content p span, .wp-dark-mode-active .blog-card-des-inner:hover .blog-card-des-content p span{\n    border-bottom-color: #f2f4f8 ;\n}\n\n.wp-dark-mode-switch.wp-dark-mode-ignore {\n    display: none;\n}\n.page-template-Template-blog .wp-dark-mode-switch.wp-dark-mode-ignore, .post-template-default.single.single-post .wp-dark-mode-switch.wp-dark-mode-ignore {\ndisplay: block;\n}\n\n@media screen and (max-width:1199px){\n    .blog-card-detail.w-50 {\n        max-width: 47%;\n    }\n    .blog-card-list {\n        gap: 50px;\n    }\n    .blog-card-des-main{\n        column-gap: 47px;\n    }\n\n}\n@media screen and (max-width:992px){\n    .blog-card-detail.w-100 .blog-card-detail-content{\n        max-width: 50%;\n    }\n    .blog-card-detail.w-50 {\n        max-width: 46%;\n    }\n    .blog-card-des-main {\n        column-gap: 36px;\n    }\n}\n\n@media screen and (max-width:768px){\n\n.page-template-Template-blog .wp-dark-mode-switch.wp-dark-mode-ignore, .post-template-default.single.single-post .wp-dark-mode-switch.wp-dark-mode-ignore {    display: none;\n}\n}\t\t\u003c/style\u003e\n\t\t\u003cstyle type=\"text/css\"\u003e/** Mega Menu CSS: fs **/\u003c/style\u003e\n\u003clink rel=\"stylesheet\" href=\"//fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Lato:400,400i,700,700i%7CPacifico:400\u0026#038;subset=latin,latin-ext\u0026#038;display=auto\" type=\"text/css\" media=\"all\" crossorigin=\"anonymous\" data-x-google-fonts/\u003e\u003c/head\u003e\n\u003cbody class=\"home wp-singular page-template page-template-template-blank-4 page-template-template-blank-4-php page page-id-8311 wp-theme-x wp-child-theme-x-child mega-menu-primary x-renew x-child-theme-active x-full-width-layout-active x-full-width-active x-navbar-fixed-top-active cornerstone-v7_7_3 x-v10_7_2\"\u003e\n\n  \u003cstyle\u003e\r\n\t@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Inter:wght@100..900\u0026family=Roboto:ital,wght@0,100;0,300;0,400;0,500;0,700;0,900;1,100;1,300;1,400;1,500;1,700;1,900\u0026display=swap');\r\n\t.single-post{\r\n\t\toverflow-x:unset;\r\n\t}\r\n\tfooter.bottom .x-container{\r\n\t\tdisplay:block !important;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.nav_megamenu span.mega_menu_subtitle:hover{\r\n\t\tcolor:#26292e;\r\n\t}\r\n\t #mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary \u003e li.mega-menu-megamenu \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu{\r\n\t\tbox-shadow:0 2.8px 2.2px rgba(0, 0, 0, .02), 0 6.7px 5.3px rgba(0, 0, 0, .028), 0 12.5px 10px rgba(0, 0, 0, .035), 0 22.3px 17.9px rgba(0, 0, 0, .042), 0 41.8px 33.4px rgba(0, 0, 0, .05), 0 100px 80px rgba(0, 0, 0, .07);\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single-post .x-container.max{\r\n    \t display:flex;\r\n\t\tposition:relative;\r\n\t\tflex-wrap:wrap;\r\n\t\talign-items:flex-start;\r\n\t}\r\n\tfooter .x-container.max{\r\n\t\tdisplay:block;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single-post .p-meta\u003espan\u003ea{\r\n\t\tcolor:#9dcc43;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single-post .entry-title{\r\n\t\tfont-size:64px;\r\n\t\tmargin-bottom:48px;\r\n\t\tfont-family: \"Inter var\", Roboto, \"Inter var\";\r\n\t\tline-height:64px;\r\n\t\tletter-spacing:-1px;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single-post .p-meta{\r\n\t\tfont-family: Roboto, \"Inter var\";\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single-post .entry-title::before{\r\n\t\tdisplay:none !important;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single-post .x-main{\r\n\t\t    width: 100%;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single-post .x-sidebar {\r\n    \twidth: calc(100% - 3.20197% - 75%);\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single-post .x-sidebar .widget {\r\n    \tmargin-top: 0;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single-post .wp-block-latest-posts__post-title{\r\n\t\tcolor:#26292e;\r\n\t\tfont-family:Roboto, \"Inter var\";\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single-post .wp-block-latest-posts__post-title:hover{\r\n\t\ttext-decoration:underline;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single-post .entry-header{\r\n    \tfont-size: 16px;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single-post .entry-content{\r\n\t\tfont-size:20px;\r\n\t\tfont-family:Roboto, \"Inter var\";\r\n\t\tline-height:35px;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single-post .entry-content p{\r\n\t\tmargin-bottom:20px;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single-post .entry-content h2,.single-post .entry-content h3{\r\n\t\tfont-size:32px;\r\n\t\tfont-weight:700;\r\n\t\tmargin-bottom:20px;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single-post .entry-content h3{\r\n\t\tmargin-top:0;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single-post .entry-content p strong em{\r\n\t\tfont-style:normal;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single-post .x-comments-list .comment{\r\n\t\tborder:0;\r\n\t\tpadding: 10px 0;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single-post .x-comments-list .comment .x-comment-img .avatar-wrap .avatar {\r\n    \twidth: 52px;\r\n\t\tborder-radius:16px;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single-post .x-comments-list .comment .x-reply .comment-reply-link{\r\n\t\tletter-spacing:0.5px;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single-post .x-comments-list .comment .x-comment-wrap{\r\n\t\tmargin-left:70px;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single-post .x-comments-list .comment .x-comment-wrap .x-comment-author{\r\n\t\tfont-size:16px;\r\n\t\tletter-spacing:0;\r\n\t\tcolor: rgb(120, 192, 1);\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single-post .x-comments-list .comment .x-comment-wrap .x-comment-header{\r\n\t\tborder-bottom: 0;\r\n\t\tpadding: 4px 0;\r\n\t\tmargin:0;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single-post .x-comments-list .comment .x-comment-wrap .x-comment-header a{\r\n\t\tfont-size:12px;\r\n\t\tcolor:#494e58;\r\n\t\tletter-spacing:0;\r\n\t\tfont-weight: 600;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single-post .x-comments-list .comment .x-comment-wrap .x-comment-content p{\r\n\t\tfont-size:15px;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single-post .comment-form-comment textarea{\r\n\t\tborder-radius:16px;\r\n\t\tbackground-color:#fff;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single-post .comment-form-author input, .single-post .comment-form-email input, .single-post .comment-form-url input{\r\n\t\tborder-radius:16px !important;\r\n\t\tbackground-color:#fff;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single-post .form-submit .submit{\r\n\t\tfont-size: 16px;\r\n\t\tline-height: normal;\r\n\t\tborder: 0;\r\n\t\tbackground-color: #000;\r\n\t\tcolor: #fff;\r\n\t\tmin-width: 120px;\r\n\t\tfont-weight:600;\r\n\t\tborder: 2px solid transparent;\r\n\t\tborder-radius:10px;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single-post .form-submit .submit:hover{\r\n\t\tbackground-color:#fff;\r\n\t\tcolor:#000;\r\n\t\tborder-color: #000;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single-post .comment-respond #reply-title{\r\n\t\tfont-size:18px;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single-post .comment-respond .logged-in-as{\r\n\t\tfont-size:16px;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single-post .wp-block-quote{\r\n\t\tbackground-color: rgb(120 192 33 / 10%);\r\n    \tcolor: #000;\r\n    \tborder-color: #99ca3c;\r\n\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single-post .x-header-landmark{\r\n\t\tdisplay:none;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.mega_menu_customlink {\r\n    \tbackground-color: #fff !important;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single-post .x-sidebar {\r\n\t\tposition: sticky;\r\n\t\ttop: 17vh;\r\n\t\tmargin-right: 0;\r\n\t    border-left: 1px solid #e2e6eb;\r\n    \tpadding-left: 25px;\r\n\t}\r\n\tli.hy_socialicon__item {\r\n    \tlist-style: none;\r\n\t}\r\n\ta.hy_socialicon_link {\r\n    \tpadding: 13px;\r\n\t}\r\n\tul.hy_social-icon.hy_mega_menu_footer__social {\r\n    display: flex;\r\n    align-items: center;\r\n    margin-left:0;\r\n}\r\n\t.single_author_sec{\r\n\t\tmax-width:832px;\r\n\t\tmargin-top:50px;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single_author_sec .wp-block-post-author__avatar{\r\n\t\tmax-width:160px;\r\n\t\twidth:100%;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single_author_sec .wp-block-post-author__avatar img{\r\n\t\twidth:100%;\r\n\t\tborder-radius:100%;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single_author_sec .wp-block-post-author__avatar {\r\n    \tmargin-right: 32px;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single_author_sec .wp-block-post-author__content p:first-child{\r\n\t\tfont-size: 24px;\r\n\t\tfont-weight: 700;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single_author_sec .wp-block-post-author__bio {\r\n\t\tfont-size: 16px;\r\n\t\tline-height: 28px;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single_author_sec .wp-block-post-author__bio a{\r\n\t\tcolor:#9dcc43;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.x-nav-wrap.desktop{\r\n\t\tdisplay: flex;\r\n\t\tjustify-content: end;\r\n\t\tpadding-top: 25px;\r\n\t}\r\n\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary {\r\n\t\tbackground: transparent !important;\r\n\t}\r\n\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary \u003e li.mega-menu-item \u003e a.mega-menu-link{\r\n\t\tcolor:#000;\r\n\t\tfont-family: \"Lato\", sans-serif;\r\n\t\tfont-style: normal;\r\n\t\tfont-weight: 400;\r\n\t\tletter-spacing: 0.071em;\r\n\t\ttext-transform: uppercase;\r\n\t}\r\n\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary \u003e li.mega-menu-item \u003e a.mega-menu-link:hover{\r\n\t\tbackground:transparent;\r\n\t\tcolor:#de6262;\r\n\t}\r\n\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary {\r\n    \tdisplay: flex;\r\n    \talign-items: center;\r\n\t}\r\n\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary \u003e li.mega-menu-item.mega-current-menu-item \u003e a.mega-menu-link{\r\n\t\tbackground:transparent;\r\n\t\tcolor:#de6262;\r\n\t\tbox-shadow: 0 2px 0 0 #de6262;\r\n\t\tfont-family: \"Lato\", sans-serif;\r\n\t\tfont-style: normal;\r\n\t\tfont-weight: 400;\r\n\t\tletter-spacing: 0.071em;\r\n\t\ttext-transform: uppercase;\r\n\t}\r\n\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary \u003e li.mega-menu-item.mega-toggle-on \u003e a.mega-menu-link{\r\n\t\tbackground:transparent;\r\n\t\tcolor:#de6262;\r\n\t}\r\n\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary \u003e li.mega-menu-flyout ul.mega-sub-menu li.mega-menu-item a.mega-menu-link{\r\n\t\tbackground:#fff;\r\n\t}\r\n\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary \u003e li.mega-menu-flyout ul.mega-sub-menu li.mega-menu-item a.mega-menu-link:hover{\r\n\t\tbackground-color:#fff;\r\n\t\tcolor:#de6262;\r\n\t}\r\n\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary li.mega-menu-item{\r\n\t\tposition:unset !important;\r\n\t}\r\n\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary \u003e li.mega-menu-megamenu \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu{\r\n\t\twidth:100%;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.active_sidebar_tab{\r\n\t\tpadding: 8px 16px;\r\n\t\tdisplay: block;\r\n\t\tbackground-color: rgb(242, 244, 248);\r\n\t\tfont-weight: 600;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single-post .x-container.max{\r\n\t\tjustify-content:space-between;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.single-post .x-container.max:before,\r\n\t.single-post .x-container.max::after{\r\n\t\tdisplay:none;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.nav_megamenu{\r\n\t\tdisplay:flex;\r\n\t\tgap:20px;\r\n\t\tflex-wrap: wrap;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.nav_megamenu .megalink_cus{\r\n\t\tmax-width:23%;\r\n\t\twidth:100%;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.nav_megamenu{\r\n\t\tgap:16px;\r\n\t}\r\n\t\r\n\t.hy_social_icon.hy_mega_menu_footer__social{\r\n    \tdisplay: flex;\r\n    \twidth: 100%;\r\n    \tflex-wrap: wrap;\r\n    \tmargin: 0;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.hy_social_icon.hy_mega_menu_footer__social li{\r\n\t\tlist-style: none;\r\n\t\tpadding:5px 10px;\r\n\t}\r\n\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary li.mega-menu-megamenu \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu \u003e li.mega-menu-row \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu \u003e li.mega-menu-columns-1-of-5 {\r\n\t\twidth: fit-content;\r\n\t\tdisplay:flex;\r\n\t\talign-items: center;\r\n\t}\r\n\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary li.mega-menu-megamenu \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu \u003e li.mega-menu-row \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu \u003e li.mega-menu-columns-2-of-5 {\r\n\t\twidth: 54%;\r\n\t}\r\n\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary, #mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary, #mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary ul.mega-sub-menu, #mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary li.mega-menu-item, #mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary li.mega-menu-row, #mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary li.mega-menu-column, #mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary a.mega-menu-link, #mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary span.mega-menu-badge{    \r\n\t\tposition: unset;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.mega_menu_social ul.mega-sub-menu{\r\n\t\tdisplay:flex !important;\r\n\t\tjustify-content:space-between !important;\r\n\t\tbackground-color:rgb(242, 244, 248) !important;\r\n\t\talign-items:center;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.mega_menu_social ul.mega-sub-menu li a{\r\n\t\tcolor:#858891;\r\n\t    font-size: 16px;\r\n\t    font-weight: 700;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.mega_menu_social ul.mega-sub-menu li a:hover{\r\n\t\tcolor:#26292e;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.mega-menu-row.mega-mega_menu_customlink.mega_menu_customlink{\r\n\t\tpadding:32px 5px !important;\r\n\t}\r\n\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary \u003e li.mega-menu-megamenu \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu li.mega-menu-column \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu \u003e li.mega-menu-item h4.mega-block-title{\r\n\t\tfont-size:32px;\r\n\t\tfont-weight:700;\r\n\t}\r\n\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary \u003e li.mega-menu-megamenu \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu li.mega-menu-column \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu \u003e li.mega-menu-item .textwidget.custom-html-widget{\r\n\t\tfont-size:16px;\r\n\t\tline-height:24px;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.nav_megamenu span.megamenu_title{\r\n\t\tfont-size:16px;\r\n\t\tline-height:24px;\r\n\t\tcolor:#26292e ;\r\n\t\tdisplay: block;\r\n   \t\tmargin-bottom: 4px;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.nav_megamenu span.mega_menu_subtitle{\r\n\t\tfont-size:13px;\r\n\t\tline-height:19px;\r\n\t\tcolor:#858891 ;\r\n        display: block;\r\n\t}\r\n\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary li.mega-menu-megamenu \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu \u003e li.mega-menu-row \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu \u003e li.mega-menu-columns-1-of-3 {\r\n    \twidth: 350px;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.hy_social_icon.hy_mega_menu_footer__social {\r\n\t\t\tpadding: 0 10px;\r\n\t\t\talign-items: center;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t.mega_menu_social ul.mega-sub-menu li a{\r\n\t\t\tdisplay:block;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t.mega_menu_social ul.mega-sub-menu li a img{\r\n\t\t\twidth:20px;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t.mega_menu_social ul.mega-sub-menu li a img:hover{\r\n\t\t    filter: brightness(.5);\r\n\t}\r\n\t\t.mega-menu-row.mega-mega_menu_social.mega_menu_social #mega-menu-10832-1-3{\r\n\t\t\tpadding-right:20px !important;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t.single-post .entry-content h2, .single-post .entry-content h3{\r\n\t\t    font-family: Roboto, \"Inter var\";\r\n\t\t\tmargin:26.5px 0;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.singside_heading.has-medium-font-size{\r\n\t\tmargin-top:0 !important;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.mega_menu_customlink .nav_megamenu .megalink_cus {\r\n    \t\tfont-family: \"Roboto\";\r\n\t}\r\n\t.wp-dark-mode-active #mega-menu-wrap-primary .mega-menu-toggle + #mega-menu-primary, html[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] #mega-menu-wrap-primary .mega-menu-toggle + #mega-menu-primary{\r\n\t\t\tbackground-color:rgb(38, 39, 38);\r\n\t}\r\n\t.wp-dark-mode-active #mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary \u003e li.mega-menu-megamenu \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu, html[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] #mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary \u003e li.mega-menu-megamenu \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu{\r\n\t\t\tbackground:rgb(38, 39, 38);\r\n\t}\r\n\t.wp-dark-mode-active #mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary li.mega-menu-megamenu \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu \u003e li.mega-menu-row, html[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] #mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary li.mega-menu-megamenu \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu \u003e li.mega-menu-row{\r\n\t\t\tbackground-color:rgb(38, 39, 38) !important;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.wp-dark-mode-active .mega_menu_social ul.mega-sub-menu,html[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] .mega_menu_social ul.mega-sub-menu{\r\n\t\tbackground-color:#181a1d !important;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.wp-dark-mode-active #mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary \u003e li.mega-menu-megamenu \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu li.mega-menu-column \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu \u003e li.mega-menu-item h4.mega-block-title,\r\n\thtml[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] #mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary \u003e li.mega-menu-megamenu \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu li.mega-menu-column \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu \u003e li.mega-menu-item h4.mega-block-title{\r\n\t\tcolor:#f2f4f8;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.wp-dark-mode-active #mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary \u003e li.mega-menu-megamenu \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu li.mega-menu-column \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu \u003e li.mega-menu-item .textwidget.custom-html-widget,\r\n\thtml[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] #mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary \u003e li.mega-menu-megamenu \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu li.mega-menu-column \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu \u003e li.mega-menu-item .textwidget.custom-html-widget{\r\n\t\tcolor:#858891;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.wp-dark-mode-active .nav_megamenu span.megamenu_title,html[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] .nav_megamenu span.megamenu_title{\r\n\t\tcolor:#f2f4f8 !important;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.wp-dark-mode-active .nav_megamenu span.mega_menu_subtitle,html[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] .nav_megamenu span.mega_menu_subtitle{\r\n\t\tcolor:#858891;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.wp-dark-mode-active .nav_megamenu span.mega_menu_subtitle:hover,html[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] .nav_megamenu span.mega_menu_subtitle:hover{\r\n\t\tcolor:#f2f4f8;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.wp-dark-mode-active .mega_menu_social ul.mega-sub-menu li a:hover, html[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] .mega_menu_social ul.mega-sub-menu li a:hover{\r\n\t\tcolor:#f2f4f8;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.wp-dark-mode-active body, html[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] body{\r\n\t\tcolor:#f2f4f8;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.wp-dark-mode-active .single-post .wp-block-quote, html[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] .single-post .wp-block-quote{\r\n\t\tcolor:#f2f4f8;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.wp-dark-mode-active .wp-block-latest-posts__post-title:not(.active_sidebar_tab), html[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] .wp-block-latest-posts__post-title:not(.active_sidebar_tab){\r\n\t\tcolor:#f2f4f8;\r\n\t}\r\n\t.wp-dark-mode-active h1, html[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] h1,.wp-dark-mode-active h2, html[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] h2,\r\n\t.wp-dark-mode-active h3, html[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] h3,.wp-dark-mode-active h4, html[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] h4,\r\n\t.wp-dark-mode-active h5, html[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] h5,.wp-dark-mode-active h6, html[data-wp-dark-mode-active=\"true\"] h6{\r\n\t\tcolor:#f2f4f8;\r\n\t}\r\n\t\r\n\t@media screen and (max-width: 1200px) {\r\n\t\t.single-post .entry-title{\r\n\t\t\tfont-size:34px;\r\n\t\t\tline-height:45px;\r\n\t\t\tmargin-bottom:20px;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t.single-post .entry-content h2, .single-post .entry-content h3{\r\n\t\t\tfont-size:24px;\r\n\t\t\tmargin-bottom:20px;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t.single-post .wp-block-quote p,.wp-block-quote cite, .wp-block-quote footer{\r\n\t\t\tfont-size:16px;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary li.mega-menu-megamenu \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu \u003e li.mega-menu-row \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu \u003e li.mega-menu-columns-2-of-3 {\r\n\t\t\twidth: 100%;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t}\r\n\t@media (max-width: 978.98px){\r\n\t\t.single-post .x-sidebar{\r\n\t\t\tmargin-left:0;\r\n\t\t\tmargin-top:0;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t.x-nav-wrap.desktop {\r\n\t\t\tdisplay: none;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t.x-container.max {\r\n\t\t\tdisplay: flex;\r\n\t\t\talign-items: center;\r\n\t\t\tjustify-content: space-between;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t.x-container.max:before,.x-container.max:after{\r\n\t\t\tdisplay:none !important;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t.mega-menu-row.mega-mega_menu_social.mega_menu_social{\r\n\t\t\tpadding-right:0px !important;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary \u003e li.mega-menu-item.mega-current-menu-item \u003e a.mega-menu-link{\r\n\t\t\tborder:1px solid #de6262;\r\n\t\t\tbox-shadow:none;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary, #mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary{\r\n\t\t\tposition: absolute;\r\n\t\t\tleft: 0;\r\n\t\t\twidth: 100%;\r\n\t\t\tbackground-color: #fff;\r\n\t\t\ttop:35px;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary .mega-menu-toggle{\r\n\t\t\tdisplay:block;\r\n\t\t\tbackground-color:transparent;\r\n\t\t\theight:fit-content;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t.x-btn-navbar.collapsed{\r\n\t\t\tdisplay:none;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t.x-nav-wrap.mobile.x-collapsed {\r\n    \t\tdisplay: block;\r\n\t\t\tbackground-color: transparent;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary .mega-menu-toggle + #mega-menu-primary{\r\n\t\t\tbackground-color:#fff;\r\n\t\t\tpadding:10px;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\r\n\t\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary .mega-menu-toggle .mega-toggle-block-0 .mega-toggle-animated-inner, #mega-menu-wrap-primary .mega-menu-toggle .mega-toggle-block-0 .mega-toggle-animated-inner::before, #mega-menu-wrap-primary .mega-menu-toggle .mega-toggle-block-0 .mega-toggle-animated-inner::after{\r\n\t\t\tbackground-color:#363232 !important;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary \u003e li.mega-menu-item{\r\n\t\t\tdisplay:block;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary li.mega-menu-item.mega-toggle-on \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu, #mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary li.mega-menu-megamenu.mega-menu-item.mega-toggle-on \tul.mega-sub-menu {\r\n    \tdisplay: block !important;\r\n\t}\r\n\t\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary li.mega-menu-megamenu \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu \u003e li.mega-menu-row{\r\n\t\t\tbackground-color:#fff !important;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary li.mega-menu-megamenu \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu \u003e li.mega-menu-row \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu \u003e li.mega-menu-columns-1-of-3 {\r\n    \twidth: 100%;\r\n    \tdisplay: block;\r\n\t}\t\r\n\t\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary li.mega-menu-megamenu \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu \u003e li.mega-menu-row \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu \u003e li.mega-menu-column {\r\n\t\t\tdisplay: block;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t.hy_social_icon.hy_mega_menu_footer__social li {\r\n\t\t\tpadding: 5px 6px;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t.mega_menu_social ul.mega-sub-menu li a{\r\n\t\t\tfont-size:14px;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t.mega-menu-row.mega-mega_menu_customlink.mega_menu_customlink {\r\n    \t\tpadding: 10px 10px !important;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary li.mega-menu-megamenu \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu \u003e li.mega-menu-row .mega-menu-column \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu \u003e li.mega-menu-item {\r\n\t\t\tpadding: 5px 0;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary \u003e li.mega-menu-item \u003e a.mega-menu-link{\r\n\t\t\tborder:1px solid #de6262;\r\n\t\t\tmargin-bottom:11px;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t}\r\n\t@media screen and (max-width:767px) {\r\n\t\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary \u003e li.mega-menu-megamenu \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu li.mega-menu-column \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu \u003e li#mega-menu-item-custom_html-14{\r\n\t\t\t padding: 8px;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary \u003e li.mega-menu-megamenu \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu li.mega-menu-column \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu \u003e li.mega-menu-item h4.mega-block-title {\r\n\t\t\tfont-size:20px;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t\r\n\t\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary li.mega-menu-megamenu \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu \u003e li.mega-menu-row \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu \u003e li.mega-menu-columns-1-of-5{\r\n\t\t\tdisplay:none !important;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary li.mega-menu-megamenu \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu \u003e li.mega-menu-row \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu \u003e li.mega-menu-columns-2-of-5 {\r\n    \t\twidth: 100%;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary \u003e li.mega-menu-item \u003e a.mega-menu-link{\r\n\t\t\tline-height: 30px;\r\n\t\t\tdisplay: flex;\r\n\t\t\talign-items: center;\r\n\t\t\tpadding: 5px 8px;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary \u003e li.mega-menu-item.mega-current-menu-item \u003e a.mega-menu-link{\r\n\t\t\tbox-shadow:none;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t.mega-menu-row.mega-mega_menu_social.mega_menu_social#mega-menu-9285-1{\r\n\t\t\t    position: absolute !important;\r\n\t\t\t\tleft: 0 !important;\r\n\t\t\t\tbottom: 0 !important;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t.hy_social_icon.hy_mega_menu_footer__social{\r\n\t\t\tpadding:0 20px;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary .mega-menu-toggle + #mega-menu-primary{\r\n\t\t\tpadding-bottom:100px;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary \u003e li.mega-menu-megamenu \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu{\r\n\t\t\tbackground-color:transparent;\r\n\t\t\tpadding:0 !important;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary \u003e li.mega-menu-item{\r\n\t\t\twidth:100%;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t.nav_megamenu .megalink_cus {\r\n\t\t\tpadding: 5px 8px 5px 0;\r\n\t\t\tmax-width:unset;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary \u003e li.mega-menu-megamenu \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu{\r\n\t\t\tpadding:0 !important;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t.nav_megamenu{\r\n\t\t\tgap:0;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t#mega-menu-item-custom_html-8{\r\n\t\t\tpadding:23px 0 !important;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary li.mega-menu-megamenu \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu \u003e li.mega-menu-row .mega-menu-column \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu \u003e li.mega-menu-item {\r\n\t\t\tpadding: 0;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary li.mega-menu-megamenu \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu \u003e li.mega-menu-row{\r\n\t\t\tpadding:0 !important;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary \u003e li.mega-menu-item{\r\n\t\t\tmargin-bottom:16px;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary \u003e li.mega-menu-megamenu \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu{\r\n\t\t\tmargin-bottom:16px;\r\n\t\t\tbox-shadow:none;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t.nav_megamenu span.megamenu_title {\r\n\t\t\tmargin-bottom:0;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t.x-btn-navbar-search span{\r\n\t\t\tdisplay: flex;\r\n\t\t\talign-items: center;\r\n\t\t\tgap: 10px;\r\n\t\t\tpadding-left: 10px;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t.x-btn-navbar-search span i{\r\n\t\t\t    font-size: 20px;\r\n    \t\t\tline-height: normal;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t.x-btn-navbar-search span .x-hidden-desktop{\r\n\t\t\tfont-size: 16px;\r\n\t\t\tpadding-left:0;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t.mega_menu_customlink .nav_megamenu .megalink_cus{\r\n\t\t\tdisplay:inline-block;\r\n\t\t\tmax-width:50%;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t.mega_menu_customlink .nav_megamenu .megalink_cus:hover span.mega_menu_subtitle{\r\n\t\t\tdisplay:block;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\ta.hy_socialicon_link{\r\n\t\t\tpadding:28px;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t.wp-dark-mode-floating-switch{\r\n\t\t\tleft:auto !important;\r\n\t\t\tright:10px !important;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t.mega-menu-row.mega-mega_menu_social.mega_menu_social{\r\n\t\t\tposition:fixed !important;\r\n\t\t\tbottom:0 !important;\r\n\t\t\tleft:0 !important;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t.mega-menu-primary-mobile-open{\r\n\t\t\toverflow:hidden;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary .mega-menu-toggle.mega-menu-open + #mega-menu-primary{\r\n\t\t\ttop:44.54px !important; \r\n\t\t\theight:100vh;\r\n\t\t\toverflow: scroll;\r\n    \t\tpadding-bottom: 240px;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t.no-scroll{\r\n\t\t\toverflow:hidden;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t}\r\n\r\n\t@media screen and (max-width: 575px){\r\n\t\t\r\n\t\t.single-post .entry-title {\r\n\t\t\tfont-size: 24px;\r\n\t\t\tline-height:30px;\r\n\t\t\tmargin-bottom: 20px;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t.single-post .entry-content h2, .single-post .entry-content h3{\r\n\t\t\tfont-size:20px;\r\n\t\t\tmargin-bottom:15px;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t.single-post .entry-content p {\r\n\t\t\tmargin-bottom: 15px;\r\n\t\t\tfont-size: 16px;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t.single_author_sec{\r\n\t\t\tflex-direction:column;\r\n\t\t\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t.single_author_sec .wp-block-post-author__avatar {\r\n\t\t\tmargin-right: 0;\r\n\t\t\tmargin-bottom:15px;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary \u003e li.mega-menu-item \u003e a.mega-menu-link {\r\n\t\t\tfont-size: 14px;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t.nav_megamenu span.megamenu_title{\r\n\t\t\tfont-size:14px;\r\n\t\t\tline-height:21px;\r\n\t\t\theight:21px;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t.hy_social_icon.hy_mega_menu_footer__social {\r\n    \t\tpadding: 0 10px;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t#mega-menu-item-custom_html-8 {\r\n\t\t\tpadding: 15px 0 !important;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\ta.hy_socialicon_link {\r\n    \t\tpadding: 28px 20px;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary \u003e li.mega-menu-item {\r\n    \t\tmargin-bottom: 0;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t\t#mega-menu-wrap-primary #mega-menu-primary \u003e li.mega-menu-megamenu \u003e ul.mega-sub-menu {\r\n    \t\tmargin-bottom: 8px;\r\n\t\t}\r\n\t}\r\n\u003c/style\u003e\n  \n  \u003cdiv id=\"x-root\" class=\"x-root\"\u003e\n\n    \n    \u003cdiv id=\"top\" class=\"site\"\u003e\n\n    \u003cheader class=\"masthead masthead-inline\" role=\"banner\"\u003e\n\n\n  \u003cdiv class=\"x-navbar-wrap\"\u003e\n    \u003cdiv class=\"x-navbar\"\u003e\n      \u003cdiv class=\"x-navbar-inner\"\u003e\n        \u003cdiv class=\"x-container max width\"\u003e\n          \n\u003ca href=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/\" class=\"x-brand img\"\u003e\n  \u003cimg src=\"//www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/07/htGlobalInc.png\" alt=\"HyperTrends Global Inc.\"\u003e\u003c/a\u003e\n          \n\u003ca href=\"#\" id=\"x-btn-navbar\" class=\"x-btn-navbar collapsed\" data-x-toggle=\"collapse-b\" data-x-toggleable=\"x-nav-wrap-mobile\" aria-expanded=\"false\" aria-controls=\"x-nav-wrap-mobile\" role=\"button\"\u003e\n  \u003ci class='x-framework-icon x-icon-bars' data-x-icon-s='\u0026#xf0c9;' aria-hidden=true\u003e\u003c/i\u003e  \u003cspan class=\"visually-hidden\"\u003eNavigation\u003c/span\u003e\n\u003c/a\u003e\n\n\u003cnav class=\"x-nav-wrap desktop\" role=\"navigation\"\u003e\n  \u003cdiv id=\"mega-menu-wrap-primary\" class=\"mega-menu-wrap\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"mega-menu-toggle\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"mega-toggle-blocks-left\"\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"mega-toggle-blocks-center\"\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"mega-toggle-blocks-right\"\u003e\u003cdiv class='mega-toggle-block mega-menu-toggle-animated-block mega-toggle-block-0' id='mega-toggle-block-0'\u003e\u003cbutton aria-label=\"Toggle Menu\" class=\"mega-toggle-animated mega-toggle-animated-slider\" type=\"button\" aria-expanded=\"false\"\u003e\n                  \u003cspan class=\"mega-toggle-animated-box\"\u003e\n                    \u003cspan class=\"mega-toggle-animated-inner\"\u003e\u003c/span\u003e\n                  \u003c/span\u003e\n                \u003c/button\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003cul id=\"mega-menu-primary\" class=\"mega-menu max-mega-menu mega-menu-horizontal mega-no-js\" data-event=\"hover_intent\" data-effect=\"fade_up\" data-effect-speed=\"200\" data-effect-mobile=\"disabled\" data-effect-speed-mobile=\"0\" data-mobile-force-width=\"body\" data-second-click=\"go\" data-document-click=\"collapse\" data-vertical-behaviour=\"standard\" data-breakpoint=\"978\" data-unbind=\"true\" data-mobile-state=\"collapse_all\" data-mobile-direction=\"vertical\" data-hover-intent-timeout=\"300\" data-hover-intent-interval=\"100\"\u003e\u003cli class=\"mega-menu-item mega-menu-item-type-post_type mega-menu-item-object-page mega-menu-item-home mega-current-menu-item mega-page_item mega-page-item-8311 mega-current_page_item mega-align-bottom-left mega-menu-flyout mega-menu-item-10766\" id=\"mega-menu-item-10766\"\u003e\u003ca class=\"mega-menu-link\" href=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/\" aria-current=\"page\" tabindex=\"0\"\u003eHome\u003c/a\u003e\u003c/li\u003e\u003cli class=\"mega-menu-item mega-menu-item-type-post_type mega-menu-item-object-page mega-align-bottom-left mega-menu-flyout mega-menu-item-10767\" id=\"mega-menu-item-10767\"\u003e\u003ca class=\"mega-menu-link\" href=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/software-development-case-studies/\" tabindex=\"0\"\u003eWork\u003c/a\u003e\u003c/li\u003e\u003cli class=\"mega-menu-item mega-menu-item-type-post_type mega-menu-item-object-page mega-align-bottom-left mega-menu-flyout mega-menu-item-7604\" id=\"mega-menu-item-7604\"\u003e\u003ca class=\"mega-menu-link\" href=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/our-blog/\" tabindex=\"0\"\u003eBlog\u003c/a\u003e\u003c/li\u003e\u003cli class=\"mega-menu-item mega-menu-item-type-post_type mega-menu-item-object-page mega-align-bottom-left mega-menu-flyout mega-menu-item-7603\" id=\"mega-menu-item-7603\"\u003e\u003ca class=\"mega-menu-link\" href=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/about-us/\" tabindex=\"0\"\u003eAbout Us\u003c/a\u003e\u003c/li\u003e\u003cli class=\"mega-menu-item mega-menu-item-type-post_type mega-menu-item-object-page mega-align-bottom-left mega-menu-flyout mega-menu-item-10768\" id=\"mega-menu-item-10768\"\u003e\u003ca title=\"Schedule A Consultation\" class=\"mega-menu-link\" href=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/contact-us/\" tabindex=\"0\"\u003eSchedule A Consultation\u003c/a\u003e\u003c/li\u003e\u003cli class=\"menu-item x-menu-item x-menu-item-search\"\u003e\u003ca href=\"#\" class=\"x-btn-navbar-search\" aria-label=\"Navigation Search\"\u003e\u003cspan\u003e\u003ci class='x-framework-icon x-icon-search' data-x-icon-s='\u0026#xf002;' aria-hidden=true\u003e\u003c/i\u003e\u003cspan class=\"x-hidden-desktop\"\u003e Search\u003c/span\u003e\u003c/span\u003e\u003c/a\u003e\u003c/li\u003e\u003c/ul\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/nav\u003e\n\n\u003cdiv id=\"x-nav-wrap-mobile\" class=\"x-nav-wrap mobile x-collapsed\" data-x-toggleable=\"x-nav-wrap-mobile\" data-x-toggle-collapse=\"1\" aria-hidden=\"true\" aria-labelledby=\"x-btn-navbar\"\u003e\n  \u003cdiv id=\"mega-menu-wrap-primary\" class=\"mega-menu-wrap\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"mega-menu-toggle\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"mega-toggle-blocks-left\"\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"mega-toggle-blocks-center\"\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"mega-toggle-blocks-right\"\u003e\u003cdiv class='mega-toggle-block mega-menu-toggle-animated-block mega-toggle-block-0' id='mega-toggle-block-0'\u003e\u003cbutton aria-label=\"Toggle Menu\" class=\"mega-toggle-animated mega-toggle-animated-slider\" type=\"button\" aria-expanded=\"false\"\u003e\n                  \u003cspan class=\"mega-toggle-animated-box\"\u003e\n                    \u003cspan class=\"mega-toggle-animated-inner\"\u003e\u003c/span\u003e\n                  \u003c/span\u003e\n                \u003c/button\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003cul id=\"mega-menu-primary\" class=\"mega-menu max-mega-menu mega-menu-horizontal mega-no-js\" data-event=\"hover_intent\" data-effect=\"fade_up\" data-effect-speed=\"200\" data-effect-mobile=\"disabled\" data-effect-speed-mobile=\"0\" data-mobile-force-width=\"body\" data-second-click=\"go\" data-document-click=\"collapse\" data-vertical-behaviour=\"standard\" data-breakpoint=\"978\" data-unbind=\"true\" data-mobile-state=\"collapse_all\" data-mobile-direction=\"vertical\" data-hover-intent-timeout=\"300\" data-hover-intent-interval=\"100\"\u003e\u003cli class=\"mega-menu-item mega-menu-item-type-post_type mega-menu-item-object-page mega-menu-item-home mega-current-menu-item mega-page_item mega-page-item-8311 mega-current_page_item mega-align-bottom-left mega-menu-flyout mega-menu-item-10766\" id=\"mega-menu-item-10766\"\u003e\u003ca class=\"mega-menu-link\" href=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/\" aria-current=\"page\" tabindex=\"0\"\u003eHome\u003c/a\u003e\u003c/li\u003e\u003cli class=\"mega-menu-item mega-menu-item-type-post_type mega-menu-item-object-page mega-align-bottom-left mega-menu-flyout mega-menu-item-10767\" id=\"mega-menu-item-10767\"\u003e\u003ca class=\"mega-menu-link\" href=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/software-development-case-studies/\" tabindex=\"0\"\u003eWork\u003c/a\u003e\u003c/li\u003e\u003cli class=\"mega-menu-item mega-menu-item-type-post_type mega-menu-item-object-page mega-align-bottom-left mega-menu-flyout mega-menu-item-7604\" id=\"mega-menu-item-7604\"\u003e\u003ca class=\"mega-menu-link\" href=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/our-blog/\" tabindex=\"0\"\u003eBlog\u003c/a\u003e\u003c/li\u003e\u003cli class=\"mega-menu-item mega-menu-item-type-post_type mega-menu-item-object-page mega-align-bottom-left mega-menu-flyout mega-menu-item-7603\" id=\"mega-menu-item-7603\"\u003e\u003ca class=\"mega-menu-link\" href=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/about-us/\" tabindex=\"0\"\u003eAbout Us\u003c/a\u003e\u003c/li\u003e\u003cli class=\"mega-menu-item mega-menu-item-type-post_type mega-menu-item-object-page mega-align-bottom-left mega-menu-flyout mega-menu-item-10768\" id=\"mega-menu-item-10768\"\u003e\u003ca title=\"Schedule A Consultation\" class=\"mega-menu-link\" href=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/contact-us/\" tabindex=\"0\"\u003eSchedule A Consultation\u003c/a\u003e\u003c/li\u003e\u003cli class=\"menu-item x-menu-item x-menu-item-search\"\u003e\u003ca href=\"#\" class=\"x-btn-navbar-search\" aria-label=\"Navigation Search\"\u003e\u003cspan\u003e\u003ci class='x-framework-icon x-icon-search' data-x-icon-s='\u0026#xf002;' aria-hidden=true\u003e\u003c/i\u003e\u003cspan class=\"x-hidden-desktop\"\u003e Search\u003c/span\u003e\u003c/span\u003e\u003c/a\u003e\u003c/li\u003e\u003c/ul\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\n\n        \u003c/div\u003e\n      \u003c/div\u003e\n    \u003c/div\u003e\n  \u003c/div\u003e\n\n\u003c/header\u003e\n\n  \u003cdiv class=\"x-main full\" role=\"main\"\u003e\n\n    \n      \u003carticle id=\"post-8311\" class=\"post-8311 page type-page status-publish hentry no-post-thumbnail\"\u003e\n        \n\n\u003cdiv class=\"entry-content content\"\u003e\n\n\n  \u003cdiv id=\"cs-content\" class=\"cs-content\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-section e8311-e1 m6ev-0 m6ev-1 m6ev-2 m6ev-3 m6ev-4\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-bg\" aria-hidden=\"true\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-bg-layer-lower-video\"\u003e\u003cdiv  class=\"x-video player bg transparent hide-controls autoplay loop muted playsinline\" data-x-element-mejs=\"{\u0026quot;poster\u0026quot;:\u0026quot;\u0026quot;}\"  data-x-video-options='{\"pause_out_of_view\":false}'\u003e\u003cscript type=\"text/template\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-video-inner video/mp4  transparent\"\u003e\u003cvideo class=\"x-mejs has-stack-styles\" preload=\"metadata\" autoplay loop muted playsinline\u003e\u003csource src=\"https://htstorage.blob.core.windows.net/marketing/ht_splash001.mp4\" type=\"video/mp4\"\u003e\u003c/video\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/script\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-bg-layer-upper-color\"\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-container max width marginless-columns e8311-e2 m6ev-m m6ev-n\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-column x-sm x-2-3 e8311-e3 m6ev-v m6ev-w m6ev-x m6ev-y m6ev-z\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"purple-pill\"\u003eAttention: Entrepreneurs\u003c/div\u003e\u003chr class=\"x-line e8311-e5 m6ev-16 m6ev-17\"/\u003e\u003ch1  class=\"h-custom-headline cs-ta-left light mt20 h2\" \u003e\u003cspan\u003eRadically transform your business by using software \u0026 emerging technologies\u003c/span\u003e\u003c/h1\u003e\u003chr class=\"x-line e8311-e7 m6ev-17 m6ev-18\"/\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-text x-content e8311-e8 m6ev-1a m6ev-1b m6ev-1c m6ev-1d m6ev-1e m6ev-1f m6ev-1g m6ev-1h\"\u003eFuel your company's growth using proven playbooks that have helped businesses in over 12 different verticals\u003c/div\u003e\u003chr class=\"x-line e8311-e9 m6ev-17 m6ev-18\"/\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"clutch-widget\" style=\"margin-top:20px;\" data-url=\"https://clutch.co\" data-widget-type=\"1\" data-height=\"50\" data-darkbg=\"1\" data-clutchcompany-id=\"29741\"\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003ca class=\"x-anchor x-anchor-button e8311-e11 m6ev-22 m6ev-23 m6ev-24 m6ev-25\" tabindex=\"0\" href=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/contact-us/\" target=\"_blank\" rel=\"noopener noreferrer\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-anchor-content\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-anchor-text\"\u003e\u003cspan class=\"x-anchor-text-primary\"\u003eSchedule A Consultation\u003c/span\u003e\u003cspan class=\"x-anchor-text-secondary\"\u003eRisk Free/No Strings Attached\u003c/span\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/a\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-column x-sm x-1-3 e8311-e12 m6ev-v m6ev-10 m6ev-11\"\u003e\u0026nbsp;\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-section e8311-e13 m6ev-0 m6ev-4 m6ev-5 m6ev-6 m6ev-7 m6ev-8\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-row x-container max width e8311-e14 m6ev-2a m6ev-2b m6ev-2c m6ev-2d m6ev-2e m6ev-2k m6ev-2l\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-row-inner\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-col e8311-e15 m6ev-31 m6ev-32\"\u003e\u003cdiv style=\"display:block;width:250px; background-color:#4c0bb2; color:#ffffff;text-align:center; border-radius:20px;align:center;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto; padding:5px 20px 5px 20px; margin-bottom:20px;\"\u003eRocketfuel for the best\n\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-row x-container max width e8311-e17 m6ev-2a m6ev-2b m6ev-2c m6ev-2d m6ev-2k m6ev-2m\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-row-inner\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-col e8311-e18 m6ev-31 m6ev-32 m6ev-33\"\u003e\u003cspan class=\"x-image e8311-e19 m6ev-36 m6ev-37 m6ev-38 m6ev-39 m6ev-3a\"\u003e\u003cimg decoding=\"async\" src=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/p360.png\" width=\"166\" height=\"60\" alt=\"Image\" loading=\"lazy\"\u003e\u003c/span\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-col e8311-e20 m6ev-31 m6ev-32 m6ev-33\"\u003e\u003cspan class=\"x-image e8311-e21 m6ev-36 m6ev-3a m6ev-3b m6ev-3c\"\u003e\u003cimg decoding=\"async\" src=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/10/jtLogo.png\" width=\"288\" height=\"70\" alt=\"Image\" loading=\"lazy\"\u003e\u003c/span\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-col e8311-e22 m6ev-31 m6ev-32 m6ev-33\"\u003e\u003cspan class=\"x-image e8311-e23 m6ev-36 m6ev-39 m6ev-3a m6ev-3b\"\u003e\u003cimg decoding=\"async\" src=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/cybercatch.webp\" width=\"300\" height=\"104\" alt=\"Image\" loading=\"lazy\"\u003e\u003c/span\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-col e8311-e24 m6ev-31 m6ev-32\"\u003e\u003cspan class=\"x-image e8311-e25 m6ev-36 m6ev-39 m6ev-3a m6ev-3b\"\u003e\u003cimg decoding=\"async\" src=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/12/tz_logo.png\" width=\"271\" height=\"90\" alt=\"Image\" loading=\"lazy\"\u003e\u003c/span\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-row x-container max width e8311-e26 m6ev-2a m6ev-2c m6ev-2d m6ev-2f m6ev-2g m6ev-2k m6ev-2n\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-row-inner\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-col e8311-e27 m6ev-31 m6ev-32 m6ev-33\"\u003e\u003cspan class=\"x-image e8311-e28 m6ev-36 m6ev-39 m6ev-3a m6ev-3d m6ev-3e m6ev-3f\"\u003e\u003cimg decoding=\"async\" src=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/07/ecg_logo-white-long-400x-black.png\" width=\"835\" height=\"89\" alt=\"Electronic Caregiver\" loading=\"lazy\"\u003e\u003c/span\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-col e8311-e29 m6ev-31 m6ev-32 m6ev-33\"\u003e\u003cspan class=\"x-image e8311-e30 m6ev-36 m6ev-37 m6ev-38 m6ev-39 m6ev-3a\"\u003e\u003cimg decoding=\"async\" src=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/07/fe_logo.png\" width=\"529\" height=\"117\" alt=\"Image\" loading=\"lazy\"\u003e\u003c/span\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-col e8311-e31 m6ev-31 m6ev-32 m6ev-33\"\u003e\u003cspan class=\"x-image e8311-e32 m6ev-36 m6ev-38 m6ev-39 m6ev-3a m6ev-3d\"\u003e\u003cimg decoding=\"async\" src=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/07/cropped-website-header-logo.png\" width=\"300\" height=\"27\" alt=\"Image\" loading=\"lazy\"\u003e\u003c/span\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-col e8311-e33 m6ev-31 m6ev-32\"\u003e\u003cspan class=\"x-image e8311-e34 m6ev-36 m6ev-3a m6ev-3b m6ev-3c\"\u003e\u003cimg decoding=\"async\" src=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/12/tb_main_logo_gray.png\" width=\"525\" height=\"142\" alt=\"Image\" loading=\"lazy\"\u003e\u003c/span\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-section e8311-e35 m6ev-0 m6ev-4 m6ev-5 m6ev-6 m6ev-7 m6ev-8 m6ev-9\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-row x-container max width e8311-e36 m6ev-2a m6ev-2b m6ev-2c m6ev-2d m6ev-2e m6ev-2k m6ev-2o\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-row-inner\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-col e8311-e37 m6ev-31 m6ev-32\"\u003e\u003ch2  class=\"h-custom-headline cs-ta-center mt0 mb0 light h2\" \u003e\u003cspan\u003eHow can you transform your business?\u003c/span\u003e\u003c/h2\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-text x-content e8311-e39 m6ev-1b m6ev-1c m6ev-1e m6ev-1f m6ev-1g m6ev-1h m6ev-1i m6ev-1j m6ev-1k m6ev-1l m6ev-1m\"\u003e\u003cp\u003eGet the playbooks to transform every aspect of your business. From Business process optimizations to beautiful dashboards that help you make informed decisions, we have you covered\u003c/p\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-row x-container max width e8311-e40 m6ev-2a m6ev-2b m6ev-2c m6ev-2d m6ev-2e m6ev-2k m6ev-2p\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-row-inner\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-col e8311-e41 m6ev-31 m6ev-32 m6ev-34\"\u003e\u003cspan class=\"x-image e8311-e42 m6ev-36 m6ev-39 m6ev-3a m6ev-3b\"\u003e\u003cimg decoding=\"async\" src=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/12/PROCESS-IQ.png\" width=\"521\" height=\"626\" alt=\"Image\" loading=\"lazy\"\u003e\u003c/span\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-text x-content e8311-e43 m6ev-1b m6ev-1c m6ev-1g m6ev-1h m6ev-1j m6ev-1l m6ev-1m m6ev-1n m6ev-1o m6ev-1p m6ev-1q\"\u003e\u003cp\u003eEliminate business process overheads and grow your revenues by software automation\u003c/p\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-col e8311-e44 m6ev-31 m6ev-32 m6ev-34\"\u003e\u003cspan class=\"x-image e8311-e45 m6ev-36 m6ev-39 m6ev-3a m6ev-3b\"\u003e\u003cimg decoding=\"async\" src=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/12/ht_sense_3-copy.jpg\" width=\"920\" height=\"613\" alt=\"Image\" loading=\"lazy\"\u003e\u003c/span\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-text x-content e8311-e46 m6ev-1b m6ev-1c m6ev-1g m6ev-1h m6ev-1j m6ev-1l m6ev-1m m6ev-1n m6ev-1o m6ev-1p m6ev-1q\"\u003e\u003cp\u003eBreak down the data barriers in your company and make informed decisions to grow your business\u003c/p\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-col e8311-e47 m6ev-31 m6ev-32\"\u003e\u003cspan class=\"x-image e8311-e48 m6ev-36 m6ev-39 m6ev-3a m6ev-3b\"\u003e\u003cimg decoding=\"async\" src=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/12/saas_iq_1.jpg\" width=\"469\" height=\"874\" alt=\"Image\" loading=\"lazy\"\u003e\u003c/span\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-text x-content e8311-e49 m6ev-1b m6ev-1c m6ev-1g m6ev-1h m6ev-1j m6ev-1l m6ev-1m m6ev-1n m6ev-1o m6ev-1p m6ev-1q\"\u003e\u003cp\u003eDominate your marketplace by building Web, Mobile and AI SaaS applications\u003c/p\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-section e8311-e50 m6ev-0 m6ev-2 m6ev-3 m6ev-4 m6ev-a m6ev-b\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-bg\" aria-hidden=\"true\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-bg-layer-lower-image\"\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-bg-layer-upper-color\"\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-row x-container max width e8311-e51 m6ev-2c m6ev-2d m6ev-2e m6ev-2g m6ev-2h m6ev-2k m6ev-2q\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-row-inner\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-col e8311-e52 m6ev-31 m6ev-32\"\u003e\u003ch3  class=\"h-custom-headline cs-ta-center light mt40 mb40 h3\" \u003e\u003cspan\u003eAddison Care launches with massive fanfare and revolutionizes the Remote Patient Monitoring industry\u003c/span\u003e\u003c/h3\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-row x-container max width e8311-e54 m6ev-2c m6ev-2d m6ev-2g m6ev-2h m6ev-2k m6ev-2r\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-row-inner\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-col e8311-e55 m6ev-31 m6ev-32\"\u003e\u003cspan class=\"x-image e8311-e56 m6ev-36 m6ev-39 m6ev-3b m6ev-3g\"\u003e\u003cimg decoding=\"async\" src=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/addison_suface_small.png\" width=\"900\" height=\"736\" alt=\"Image\" loading=\"lazy\"\u003e\u003c/span\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-col e8311-e57 m6ev-31 m6ev-32\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-text x-content e8311-e58 m6ev-1b m6ev-1c m6ev-1f m6ev-1g m6ev-1h m6ev-1j m6ev-1l m6ev-1m m6ev-1o m6ev-1p m6ev-1r\"\u003e\u003cp\u003eRemote Patient Monitoring will soon become the norm of the industry.\u003c/p\u003e\n\u003cp\u003eHyperTrends is at the forefront of this innovation.\u003c/p\u003e\n\u003cp\u003eStrategic partnership with Electronic Caregiver cements HyperTrends' position as a leading Healthcare Technology Software developer.\u003c/p\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003ca class=\"x-anchor x-anchor-button e8311-e59 m6ev-23 m6ev-24 m6ev-26 m6ev-27\" tabindex=\"0\" href=\"#\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-anchor-content\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-anchor-text\"\u003e\u003cspan class=\"x-anchor-text-primary\"\u003eCase Study Coming Soon!\u003c/span\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/a\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-section e8311-e60 m6ev-0 m6ev-3 m6ev-4 m6ev-5 m6ev-6 m6ev-7 m6ev-b m6ev-c\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-bg\" aria-hidden=\"true\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-bg-layer-lower-image\"\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-bg-layer-upper-color\"\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-row x-container max width e8311-e61 m6ev-2c m6ev-2d m6ev-2g m6ev-2h m6ev-2k m6ev-2s\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-row-inner\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-col e8311-e62 m6ev-31 m6ev-32\"\u003e\u003ch2  class=\"h-custom-headline cs-ta-center mt0 mb40 h3\" style=\"color: hsl(0, 0%, 100%);\"\u003e\u003cspan\u003eInteliWound - Solving a massive problem of Wound Care Management in the Healthcare industry\u003c/span\u003e\u003c/h2\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-row x-container max width e8311-e64 m6ev-2c m6ev-2d m6ev-2g m6ev-2h m6ev-2k m6ev-2t\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-row-inner\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-col e8311-e65 m6ev-31 m6ev-32\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-text x-content e8311-e66 m6ev-1a m6ev-1b m6ev-1c m6ev-1f m6ev-1g m6ev-1h m6ev-1l m6ev-1m m6ev-1s\"\u003eHyperTrends partners with InteliWound to revamp their existing SaaS platform with a brand-new User-Experience that delights customers.\u003c/div\u003e\u003ca class=\"x-anchor x-anchor-button e8311-e67 m6ev-23 m6ev-24 m6ev-26 m6ev-27\" tabindex=\"0\" href=\"#\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-anchor-content\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-anchor-text\"\u003e\u003cspan class=\"x-anchor-text-primary\"\u003eCase Study Coming Soon!\u003c/span\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/a\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-col e8311-e68 m6ev-31 m6ev-32\"\u003e\u003cspan class=\"x-image e8311-e69 m6ev-36 m6ev-39 m6ev-3b m6ev-3g\"\u003e\u003cimg decoding=\"async\" src=\"https://www.hypertrends.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/iw_mac.jpg\" width=\"600\" height=\"489\" alt=\"Image\" loading=\"lazy\"\u003e\u003c/span\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-section e8311-e70 m6ev-0 m6ev-3 m6ev-4 m6ev-6 m6ev-d m6ev-e m6ev-f\" id=\"secInnovation\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-container marginless-columns e8311-e71 m6ev-m m6ev-n\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-column x-sm x-1-1 e8311-e72 m6ev-v m6ev-w m6ev-z m6ev-12 m6ev-13\"\u003e\u003ch2 id=\"innHeading\" class=\"h-custom-headline cs-ta-center mt0 h2\" \u003e\u003cspan\u003eInnovation as a religion\u003c/span\u003e\u003c/h2\u003e\u003ch5  class=\"h-custom-headline cs-ta-center h5\" style=\"margin-top:0px; padding:20px; font-size:18px;\"\u003e\u003cspan\u003eOur innovation strategies directly translate into superior results for you.\u003c/span\u003e\u003c/h5\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003c/div\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-container max width marginless-columns e8311-e75 m6ev-m m6ev-n m6ev-o\"\u003e\u003cdiv class=\"x-column x-sm x-2-3 e8311-e76 m6ev-v m6ev-z m6ev-14 m6ev-15\"\u003e\u003cdiv  class=\"x-raw-content\" \u003e\u003csvg onload=\"init(evt)\" id=\"Illustration\" xmlns=\"http://www.w3.org/2000/svg\" xmlns:xlink=\"http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink\" viewBox=\"0 0 1200 800\"\u003e\u003cdefs\u003e\u003cstyle\u003e.cls-1{opacity:0.5;fill:url(#linear-gradient);}.cls-2{opacity:0.71;}.cls-3{fill:url(#linear-gradient-2);}.cls-11,.cls-14,.cls-31,.cls-4,.cls-9{fill:#fff;}.cls-4{opacity:0.43;}.cls-5{opacity:0.76;}.cls-6{fill:url(#linear-gradient-3);}.cls-7{fill:url(#linear-gradient-4);}.cls-8{fill:url(#linear-gradient-5);}.cls-10{fill:url(#linear-gradient-6);}.cls-11{opacity:0.6;}.cls-12{fill:url(#linear-gradient-7);}.cls-13{fill:url(#linear-gradient-8);}.cls-14,.cls-30,.cls-34{opacity:0.45;}.cls-15{fill:url(#linear-gradient-9);}.cls-16{fill:url(#linear-gradient-10);}.cls-17{fill:url(#linear-gradient-11);}.cls-18{fill:url(#linear-gradient-12);}.cls-19{fill:url(#linear-gradient-13);}.cls-20{fill:url(#linear-gradient-14);}.cls-21{fill:url(#linear-gradient-15);}.cls-22{fill:url(#linear-gradient-16);}.cls-23{fill:url(#linear-gradient-17);}.cls-24{fill:url(#linear-gradient-18);}.cls-25{fill:url(#linear-gradient-19);}.cls-26{fill:url(#linear-gradient-20);}.cls-27{fill:url(#linear-gradient-21);}.cls-28{opacity:0.64;}.cls-29{opacity:0.8;fill:url(#linear-gradient-22);}.cls-30{fill:url(#linear-gradient-23);}.cls-31{opacity:0.56;}.cls-32{fill:url(#linear-gradient-24);}.cls-33{fill:url(#linear-gradient-25);}.cls-34{fill:url(#linear-gradient-26);}.cls-35{fill:url(#linear-gradient-27);}.cls-36{fill:url(#linear-gradient-28);}.cls-37{fill:url(#linear-gradient-29);}.cls-38{fill:url(#linear-gradient-30);}.cls-39{fill:url(#linear-gradient-31);}.cls-40{fill:url(#linear-gradient-32);}.cls-41{fill:url(#linear-gradient-33);}.cls-42{fill:url(#linear-gradient-34);}.cls-43{fill:url(#linear-gradient-35);}.cls-44{fill:url(#linear-gradient-36);}.cls-45{fill:url(#linear-gradient-37);}.cls-46{fill:url(#linear-gradient-38);}.cls-47{fill:url(#linear-gradient-39);}.cls-48{fill:url(#linear-gradient-40);}.cls-49{fill:url(#linear-gradient-41);}.cls-50{fill:url(#linear-gradient-42);}.cls-51{fill:url(#linear-gradient-43);}.cls-52{fill:url(#linear-gradient-44);}.cls-53{fill:url(#linear-gradient-45);}.cls-54{fill:url(#linear-gradient-46);}.cls-55{fill:url(#linear-gradient-47);}.cls-56{fill:url(#linear-gradient-48);}.cls-57{fill:url(#linear-gradient-49);}.cls-58{fill:url(#linear-gradient-50);}.cls-59{fill:url(#linear-gradient-51);}.cls-60{fill:url(#linear-gradient-52);}.cls-61{fill:url(#linear-gradient-53);}.cls-62{fill:url(#linear-gradient-54);}.cls-63{fill:url(#linear-gradient-55);}.cls-64{fill:url(#linear-gradient-56);}.cls-65{fill:url(#linear-gradient-57);}.cls-66{fill:url(#linear-gradient-58);}.cls-67{fill:#e54687;}.cls-68{fill:url(#linear-gradient-59);}.cls-69{fill:#6d388a;}.cls-70{fill:url(#linear-gradient-60);}.cls-71{fill:url(#linear-gradient-61);}.cls-72{fill:url(#linear-gradient-62);}.cls-73{fill:url(#linear-gradient-63);}.cls-74{fill:url(#linear-gradient-64);}.cls-75{fill:url(#linear-gradient-65);}.cls-76{fill:url(#linear-gradient-66);}.cls-77{fill:url(#linear-gradient-67);}.cls-78{fill:url(#linear-gradient-68);}.cls-79{fill:url(#linear-gradient-69);}.cls-80{fill:url(#linear-gradient-70);}.cls-81{fill:url(#linear-gradient-71);}.cls-82{fill:url(#linear-gradient-72);}.cls-83{fill:url(#linear-gradient-73);}.cls-84{fill:url(#linear-gradient-74);}.cls-85{fill:url(#linear-gradient-75);}.cls-86{fill:url(#linear-gradient-76);}.cls-87{fill:url(#linear-gradient-77);}.cls-88{fill:url(#linear-gradient-78);}.cls-89{fill:url(#linear-gradient-79);}.cls-90{fill:url(#linear-gradient-80);}.cls-91{fill:url(#linear-gradient-81);}.cls-92{fill:url(#linear-gradient-82);}.cls-93{fill:url(#linear-gradient-83);}.cls-94{fill:url(#linear-gradient-84);}.cls-95{fill:url(#linear-gradient-85);}.cls-96{fill:url(#linear-gradient-86);}.cls-97{fill:url(#linear-gradient-87);}.cls-98{fill:url(#linear-gradient-88);}.cls-99{fill:url(#linear-gradient-89);}.cls-100{fill:url(#linear-gradient-90);}.cls-101{fill:url(#linear-gradient-91);}.cls-102{fill:url(#linear-gradient-92);}.cls-103{fill:url(#linear-gradient-93);}.cls-104{fill:url(#linear-gradient-94);}.cls-105{fill:url(#linear-gradient-95);}.cls-106{fill:url(#linear-gradient-96);}.cls-107{fill:url(#linear-gradient-97);}.cls-108{fill:url(#linear-gradient-98);}.cls-109{fill:url(#linear-gradient-99);}\u003c/style\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient\" x1=\"16.25\" y1=\"326.33\" x2=\"1045.68\" y2=\"326.33\" gradientUnits=\"userSpaceOnUse\"\u003e\u003cstop offset=\"0\" stop-color=\"#b37cff\"/\u003e\u003cstop offset=\"1\" stop-color=\"#f895e7\"/\u003e\u003c/linearGradient\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-2\" x1=\"-2095.64\" y1=\"326\" x2=\"-1875.75\" y2=\"589.4\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-0.99, 0.11, 0.11, 0.99, -1231.46, 68.53)\" gradientUnits=\"userSpaceOnUse\"\u003e\u003cstop offset=\"0\" stop-color=\"#fdf53f\"/\u003e\u003cstop offset=\"1\" stop-color=\"#d93c65\"/\u003e\u003c/linearGradient\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-3\" x1=\"-4270.11\" y1=\"792.8\" x2=\"-4623.82\" y2=\"505.75\" gradientTransform=\"translate(3963.18 3391.28) rotate(52.61)\" gradientUnits=\"userSpaceOnUse\"\u003e\u003cstop offset=\"0\" stop-color=\"#53d8ff\"/\u003e\u003cstop offset=\"1\" stop-color=\"#3840f7\"/\u003e\u003c/linearGradient\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-4\" x1=\"8586.39\" y1=\"584.07\" x2=\"8343.59\" y2=\"741.46\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-1, 0, 0, 1, 9352.31, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-3\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-5\" x1=\"921.09\" y1=\"481.41\" x2=\"708.39\" y2=\"712.44\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(1, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-2\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-6\" x1=\"817.04\" y1=\"476.82\" x2=\"814.3\" y2=\"588.06\" gradientTransform=\"translate(1630.92 1081.98) rotate(-180)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-3\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-7\" x1=\"-119.6\" y1=\"129.5\" x2=\"100.28\" y2=\"392.9\" gradientTransform=\"translate(352.01 68.53) rotate(6.57)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-3\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-8\" x1=\"9325.27\" y1=\"-6014.68\" x2=\"9402.55\" y2=\"-6014.68\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(0.46, -0.89, 0.89, 0.46, 1287.05, 11584.78)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-2\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-9\" x1=\"-3226.43\" y1=\"2191.9\" x2=\"-3118.26\" y2=\"2399.14\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-0.19, 0.98, -0.98, -0.19, 2295.5, 4128.09)\" gradientUnits=\"userSpaceOnUse\"\u003e\u003cstop offset=\"0\" stop-color=\"#a737d5\"/\u003e\u003cstop offset=\"1\" stop-color=\"#ef497a\"/\u003e\u003c/linearGradient\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-10\" x1=\"497.1\" y1=\"516.76\" x2=\"592.92\" y2=\"672.67\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(1, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-3\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-11\" x1=\"511.09\" y1=\"517.72\" x2=\"600.29\" y2=\"662.83\" gradientTransform=\"translate(48.15 -42.14) rotate(4.61)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-3\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-12\" x1=\"519.88\" y1=\"512.32\" x2=\"609.07\" y2=\"657.43\" gradientTransform=\"translate(46.57 -42.2) rotate(4.61)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-3\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-13\" x1=\"528.66\" y1=\"506.92\" x2=\"617.86\" y2=\"652.03\" gradientTransform=\"translate(44.99 -42.27) rotate(4.61)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-3\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-14\" x1=\"537.45\" y1=\"501.52\" x2=\"626.64\" y2=\"646.63\" gradientTransform=\"translate(43.4 -42.33) rotate(4.61)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-3\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-15\" x1=\"540\" y1=\"609.21\" x2=\"472.76\" y2=\"854.15\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(1, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-3\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-16\" x1=\"537.51\" y1=\"608.52\" x2=\"470.27\" y2=\"853.46\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(1, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-3\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-17\" x1=\"531.26\" y1=\"606.81\" x2=\"464.02\" y2=\"851.75\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(1, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-3\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-18\" x1=\"529.59\" y1=\"606.35\" x2=\"462.35\" y2=\"851.29\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(1, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-3\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-19\" x1=\"555.09\" y1=\"6.74\" x2=\"518.76\" y2=\"995.08\" gradientUnits=\"userSpaceOnUse\"\u003e\u003cstop offset=\"0\" stop-color=\"#fdf53f\"/\u003e\u003cstop offset=\"0.29\" stop-color=\"#f2bf4a\"/\u003e\u003cstop offset=\"1\" stop-color=\"#d93c65\"/\u003e\u003c/linearGradient\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-20\" x1=\"586.59\" y1=\"334.11\" x2=\"601.69\" y2=\"813.7\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(1, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-2\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-21\" x1=\"503.45\" y1=\"336.72\" x2=\"518.54\" y2=\"816.31\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(1, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-2\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-22\" x1=\"313.51\" y1=\"331.17\" x2=\"404.54\" y2=\"-28.32\" gradientUnits=\"userSpaceOnUse\"\u003e\u003cstop offset=\"0\" stop-color=\"#cb236d\"/\u003e\u003cstop offset=\"1\" stop-color=\"#4c246d\"/\u003e\u003c/linearGradient\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-23\" x1=\"-235.27\" y1=\"-88.25\" x2=\"-228.59\" y2=\"151.17\" gradientTransform=\"translate(816.77 212.72) rotate(16.72)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-22\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-24\" x1=\"-567.94\" y1=\"145.77\" x2=\"-655.54\" y2=\"292.01\" gradientTransform=\"translate(816.77 212.72) rotate(16.72)\" gradientUnits=\"userSpaceOnUse\"\u003e\u003cstop offset=\"0\" stop-color=\"#cb236d\"/\u003e\u003cstop offset=\"0.07\" stop-color=\"#c2236d\"/\u003e\u003cstop offset=\"1\" stop-color=\"#4c246d\"/\u003e\u003c/linearGradient\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-25\" x1=\"-20.74\" y1=\"-10.44\" x2=\"85.94\" y2=\"-110.73\" gradientTransform=\"translate(816.77 212.72) rotate(16.72)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-22\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-26\" x1=\"142.17\" y1=\"-185.1\" x2=\"-97.25\" y2=\"95.51\" gradientTransform=\"translate(816.77 212.72) rotate(16.72)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-22\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-27\" x1=\"-397.77\" y1=\"84.48\" x2=\"-352.49\" y2=\"-23.16\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-24\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-28\" x1=\"-1173.02\" y1=\"422.82\" x2=\"-1252.67\" y2=\"509.46\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-1, 0, 0, 1, -270.32, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-22\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-29\" x1=\"-1198.87\" y1=\"429.25\" x2=\"-1191.79\" y2=\"429.25\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-1, 0, 0, 1, -270.32, 0)\" gradientUnits=\"userSpaceOnUse\"\u003e\u003cstop offset=\"0\" stop-color=\"#f9b776\"/\u003e\u003cstop offset=\"1\" stop-color=\"#f47960\"/\u003e\u003c/linearGradient\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-30\" x1=\"-1215.65\" y1=\"375.15\" x2=\"-1192.25\" y2=\"375.15\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-1, 0, 0, 1, -270.32, 0)\" gradientUnits=\"userSpaceOnUse\"\u003e\u003cstop offset=\"0\" stop-color=\"#2b3582\"/\u003e\u003cstop offset=\"1\" stop-color=\"#150e42\"/\u003e\u003c/linearGradient\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-31\" x1=\"-1190.88\" y1=\"406.39\" x2=\"-1270.54\" y2=\"493.03\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-1, 0, 0, 1, -270.32, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-22\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-32\" x1=\"-1224.37\" y1=\"428.89\" x2=\"-1218.26\" y2=\"428.89\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-29\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-33\" x1=\"-1230.95\" y1=\"374.39\" x2=\"-1197.74\" y2=\"374.39\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-30\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-34\" x1=\"-1240.4\" y1=\"310.7\" x2=\"-1129.07\" y2=\"230.58\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-1, 0, 0, 1, -270.32, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-2\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-35\" x1=\"-1169.76\" y1=\"244.67\" x2=\"-1133.61\" y2=\"244.67\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-29\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-36\" x1=\"9079.44\" y1=\"238.61\" x2=\"9103.7\" y2=\"293.8\" gradientTransform=\"translate(-8208.1)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-29\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-37\" x1=\"-1133.78\" y1=\"220.24\" x2=\"-1123.66\" y2=\"204.68\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-29\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-38\" x1=\"-1255.07\" y1=\"290.31\" x2=\"-1143.74\" y2=\"210.19\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-1, 0, 0, 1, -270.32, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-2\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-39\" x1=\"-1248.85\" y1=\"295.87\" x2=\"-1203.11\" y2=\"295.87\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-29\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-40\" x1=\"-1189.27\" y1=\"263.35\" x2=\"-1164.12\" y2=\"368.15\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-1, 0, 0, 1, -270.32, 0)\" gradientUnits=\"userSpaceOnUse\"\u003e\u003cstop offset=\"0\" stop-color=\"#9cfffb\"/\u003e\u003cstop offset=\"1\" stop-color=\"#9bfffa\"/\u003e\u003c/linearGradient\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-41\" x1=\"-1173.52\" y1=\"246.83\" x2=\"-1178.88\" y2=\"270.35\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-1, 0, 0, 1, -270.32, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-3\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-42\" x1=\"-1176.32\" y1=\"256.7\" x2=\"-1178.89\" y2=\"272.07\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-1, 0, 0, 1, -270.32, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-3\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-43\" x1=\"-1206.5\" y1=\"291.08\" x2=\"-1192.25\" y2=\"291.08\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-29\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-44\" x1=\"-1213.73\" y1=\"246.97\" x2=\"-1195.64\" y2=\"246.97\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-29\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-45\" x1=\"-6692.6\" y1=\"-2966.07\" x2=\"-6699.36\" y2=\"-2988.36\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-0.75, -0.67, -0.67, 0.75, -6046.77, -2008.45)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-29\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-46\" x1=\"-6698.7\" y1=\"-3004.91\" x2=\"-6693.05\" y2=\"-2972.67\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-0.75, -0.67, -0.67, 0.75, -6046.77, -2008.45)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-30\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-47\" x1=\"-6699.51\" y1=\"-2966.18\" x2=\"-6705.59\" y2=\"-2986.23\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-0.75, -0.67, -0.67, 0.75, -6046.77, -2008.45)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-29\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-48\" x1=\"-1115.28\" y1=\"489.32\" x2=\"-1383.86\" y2=\"795.13\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-1, 0, 0, 1, -270.32, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-3\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-49\" x1=\"-1147.12\" y1=\"466.99\" x2=\"-1415.7\" y2=\"772.8\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-1, 0, 0, 1, -270.32, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-3\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-50\" x1=\"-1343.03\" y1=\"544.58\" x2=\"-1242.13\" y2=\"544.58\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-40\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-51\" x1=\"-1283.05\" y1=\"544.58\" x2=\"-1182.16\" y2=\"544.58\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-40\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-52\" x1=\"-1251.93\" y1=\"444.25\" x2=\"-1157.63\" y2=\"444.25\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-40\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-53\" x1=\"-1260.78\" y1=\"475.29\" x2=\"-1196.83\" y2=\"475.29\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-40\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-54\" x1=\"-1277.34\" y1=\"513.04\" x2=\"-1217.18\" y2=\"513.04\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-40\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-55\" x1=\"-1295.21\" y1=\"550.8\" x2=\"-1235.05\" y2=\"550.8\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-40\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-56\" x1=\"-1315.84\" y1=\"588.56\" x2=\"-1251.89\" y2=\"588.56\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-40\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-57\" x1=\"-1333.96\" y1=\"626.31\" x2=\"-1270.01\" y2=\"626.31\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-40\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-58\" x1=\"-1694.26\" y1=\"793.1\" x2=\"-1548.18\" y2=\"504.04\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-0.98, 0.17, 0.17, 0.98, -1370.29, 123.53)\" gradientUnits=\"userSpaceOnUse\"\u003e\u003cstop offset=\"0\" stop-color=\"#233894\"/\u003e\u003cstop offset=\"1\" stop-color=\"#dd397a\"/\u003e\u003c/linearGradient\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-59\" x1=\"-1526.1\" y1=\"763.77\" x2=\"-1232.69\" y2=\"474.03\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-0.99, 0.11, 0.11, 0.99, -1173.07, 66.27)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-9\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-60\" x1=\"-1472\" y1=\"633.62\" x2=\"-1450.74\" y2=\"633.62\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-1, 0, 0, 1, -1094.27, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-30\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-61\" x1=\"-1418.78\" y1=\"608.54\" x2=\"-1496.12\" y2=\"669.26\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-1, 0, 0, 1, -1094.27, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-3\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-62\" x1=\"-1466.09\" y1=\"609.42\" x2=\"-1470.15\" y2=\"644.85\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-1, 0, 0, 1, -1094.27, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-29\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-63\" x1=\"-1405.05\" y1=\"626.01\" x2=\"-1482.38\" y2=\"686.73\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-1, 0, 0, 1, -1094.27, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-3\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-64\" x1=\"-1439.63\" y1=\"634.16\" x2=\"-1409.03\" y2=\"634.16\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-1, 0, 0, 1, -1094.27, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-30\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-65\" x1=\"-1262.86\" y1=\"550.91\" x2=\"-1266.92\" y2=\"586.35\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-1, -0.06, -0.06, 1, -886.38, -16.08)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-29\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-66\" x1=\"343.39\" y1=\"580.22\" x2=\"574.82\" y2=\"296.32\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(1, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-3\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-67\" x1=\"-1386.31\" y1=\"435.2\" x2=\"-1341.07\" y2=\"435.2\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-1, 0, 0, 1, -1094.27, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-29\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-68\" x1=\"-1325.31\" y1=\"399.68\" x2=\"-1322.65\" y2=\"467.62\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-1, 0, 0, 1, -1094.27, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-3\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-69\" x1=\"-1418.3\" y1=\"394.7\" x2=\"-1442\" y2=\"418.88\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-1, 0, 0, 1, -1094.27, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-19\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-70\" x1=\"-1358.24\" y1=\"391.86\" x2=\"-1429.21\" y2=\"427.16\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-1, 0, 0, 1, -1094.27, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-29\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-71\" x1=\"-1359.28\" y1=\"383\" x2=\"-1369.74\" y2=\"393.93\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-1, 0, 0, 1, -1094.27, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-29\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-72\" x1=\"-1357.9\" y1=\"391.44\" x2=\"-1428.87\" y2=\"426.74\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-1, 0, 0, 1, -1094.27, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-29\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-73\" x1=\"-1042.09\" y1=\"262.26\" x2=\"-1162.22\" y2=\"420.71\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-0.99, -0.13, -0.13, 0.99, -678.29, -23.33)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-19\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-74\" x1=\"-1449.89\" y1=\"402.88\" x2=\"-1440.46\" y2=\"377.13\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-1, 0, 0, 1, -1094.27, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-29\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-75\" x1=\"-1403.16\" y1=\"432.83\" x2=\"-1473.27\" y2=\"554.65\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-1, 0, 0, 1, -1094.27, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-29\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-76\" x1=\"352.68\" y1=\"423.64\" x2=\"369.42\" y2=\"423.64\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-19\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-77\" x1=\"336.51\" y1=\"404.93\" x2=\"365.35\" y2=\"404.93\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-19\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-78\" x1=\"-1426.71\" y1=\"364.25\" x2=\"-1482.9\" y2=\"409\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-1, 0, 0, 1, -1094.27, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-29\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-79\" x1=\"-1448.4\" y1=\"349.53\" x2=\"-1422.65\" y2=\"382.69\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-1, 0, 0, 1, -1094.27, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-30\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-80\" x1=\"-1432.37\" y1=\"361.8\" x2=\"-1460.02\" y2=\"382.96\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-1, 0, 0, 1, -1094.27, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-29\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-81\" x1=\"-1387.13\" y1=\"446.64\" x2=\"-1375.98\" y2=\"446.64\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-1, 0, 0, 1, -1094.27, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-29\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-82\" x1=\"-1304.87\" y1=\"422.92\" x2=\"-1211.08\" y2=\"472.85\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-1, 0, 0, 1, -1094.27, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-3\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-83\" x1=\"-1285.09\" y1=\"389.95\" x2=\"-1292.35\" y2=\"368.19\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-1, 0, 0, 1, -1094.27, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-29\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-84\" x1=\"-1286.65\" y1=\"453.43\" x2=\"-1210.36\" y2=\"453.43\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-1, 0, 0, 1, -1094.27, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-40\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-85\" x1=\"-1283.09\" y1=\"452.85\" x2=\"-1210.29\" y2=\"452.85\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-1, 0, 0, 1, -1094.27, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-40\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-86\" x1=\"-1245.54\" y1=\"445.62\" x2=\"-1230.07\" y2=\"515.01\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-1, 0, 0, 1, -1094.27, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-2\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-87\" x1=\"-1291.48\" y1=\"400.03\" x2=\"-1190.65\" y2=\"453.71\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-1, 0, 0, 1, -1094.27, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-3\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-88\" x1=\"-1274.38\" y1=\"421.77\" x2=\"-1242.31\" y2=\"438.85\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-1, 0, 0, 1, -1094.27, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-3\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-89\" x1=\"-1241.05\" y1=\"453.34\" x2=\"-1264.62\" y2=\"498.68\" gradientTransform=\"matrix(-1, 0, 0, 1, -1094.27, 0)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-29\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-90\" x1=\"4233.76\" y1=\"5097.77\" x2=\"4207.69\" y2=\"5132.27\" gradientTransform=\"translate(-6416.97 -52.72) rotate(-46.73)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-29\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-91\" x1=\"4213.85\" y1=\"5106.06\" x2=\"4244.99\" y2=\"5106.06\" gradientTransform=\"translate(-6416.97 -52.72) rotate(-46.73)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-30\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-92\" x1=\"4195.57\" y1=\"5125.09\" x2=\"4216.49\" y2=\"5103.63\" gradientTransform=\"translate(-6416.97 -52.72) rotate(-46.73)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-29\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-93\" x1=\"2206.18\" y1=\"642.14\" x2=\"2238.58\" y2=\"642.14\" gradientTransform=\"translate(-2047.92)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-3\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-94\" x1=\"2206.18\" y1=\"635.79\" x2=\"2237.67\" y2=\"635.79\" gradientTransform=\"translate(-2047.92)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-30\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-95\" x1=\"2209.17\" y1=\"626.92\" x2=\"2218.3\" y2=\"626.92\" gradientTransform=\"translate(-2047.92)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-29\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-96\" x1=\"2141.58\" y1=\"641.44\" x2=\"2154\" y2=\"641.44\" gradientTransform=\"translate(-2047.92)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-3\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-97\" x1=\"2141.67\" y1=\"631.88\" x2=\"2159.9\" y2=\"631.88\" gradientTransform=\"translate(-2047.92)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-30\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-98\" x1=\"2151.15\" y1=\"619.32\" x2=\"2162.05\" y2=\"619.32\" gradientTransform=\"translate(-2047.92)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-29\"/\u003e\u003clinearGradient id=\"linear-gradient-99\" x1=\"-178\" y1=\"627.88\" x2=\"-11.56\" y2=\"397.76\" gradientTransform=\"translate(285.08)\" xlink:href=\"#linear-gradient-30\"/\u003e\u003c/defs\u003e\u003ctitle\u003etest11\u003c/title\u003e\u003cpath class=\"cls-1\" d=\"M965.52,409.45c-11.8-45.86,24.9-88,49.08-128.72,35.81-60.26,45-141.53,4.47-198.75-37-52.26-106.53-72.77-170.47-69.17S723.85,40,663,59.84,537.48,96,474.47,84.56C406,72.13,345.76,27.94,276.64,20.13c-62.85-7.1-128.5,19-169.33,67.28S51.69,204.79,69.14,265.57c9.3,32.38,26.6,68.83,8.39,97.16C68,377.63,50.75,385.6,38.27,398.16,14.14,422.42,10.77,462.24,23.64,494s39.29,56.16,68.14,74.57C192.37,632.68,319.77,631.4,439,628l-17.94-1.2,217.74,10.09c98.3,4.56,198.72,8.88,293.21-18.6,24.47-7.12,48.91-16.67,68-33.6s32-42.48,28.26-67.69C1022.17,475.46,976,450.1,965.52,409.45Z\"/\u003e\u003cg class=\"cls-2\"\u003e\u003cpath class=\"cls-3\" d=\"M945.19,198.53a3.89,3.89,0,0,1,3.73,6.57c-28.45,26.9-100.84,99.79-124.79,166-39,107.77-136.76,217.25-222.81,206.59C601.32,577.67,520.09,317,945.19,198.53Z\"/\u003e\u003cpath class=\"cls-4\" d=\"M901.57,231.2c-.8.54-1.68,1.24-2.54,1.88l-2.55,2-5.07,4q-5,4.07-10,8.2-10,8.26-19.78,16.76Q842,281,823,298.7c-25.22,23.63-49.73,48-72.93,73.64-11.54,12.85-23,25.8-33.88,39.2s-21.49,27-31.5,41.11c-1.29,1.73-2.53,3.5-3.75,5.28l-3.68,5.32-3.68,5.33c-1.21,1.79-2.37,3.61-3.55,5.41-2.34,3.63-4.76,7.21-7,10.88l-6.73,11.06a494.86,494.86,0,0,0-24.09,45.84h0a.5.5,0,0,1-.91-.4,455.6,455.6,0,0,1,23.22-46.48l6.63-11.19c2.23-3.71,4.62-7.33,6.92-11,1.17-1.83,2.31-3.67,3.5-5.48l3.64-5.39,3.63-5.39c1.2-1.8,2.42-3.59,3.7-5.35a838.61,838.61,0,0,1,65.34-80.78c11.64-12.83,23.69-25.28,35.92-37.54s24.74-24.25,37.54-35.91,25.76-23.15,39-34.28q10-8.33,20.09-16.46c3.39-2.69,6.78-5.39,10.2-8l5.17-3.93,2.61-1.94c.9-.64,1.72-1.27,2.73-1.92a.5.5,0,0,1,.68.16.49.49,0,0,1-.14.67Z\"/\u003e\u003c/g\u003e\u003cg class=\"cls-5\"\u003e\u003cpath class=\"cls-6\" d=\"M664,594s-82-100.26-31.15-166.14c40.87-52.94,20.17,27.87,25,99.76.38,5.65,8.76,5.44,8.85-.22.93-55.55,7.47-139.54,38-149.73,46.13-15.38,29.07,3.68,12.95,69.08s-1.65,80.63,15,38.86,4.42-114,27.8-126.92,66.33-15.45,85.2-19.16,32.43,89.26,5.32,109.79-82.51,32.21-96.36,59.32,37.16,3.35,64-12,45.73-20.19,34.35,16.78-60.52,50-95.56,48.87-56.32,9.27-39.18,11.22,70.33,3.58,87.85-6.15S791.49,641,664,594Z\"/\u003e\u003c/g\u003e\u003cpath class=\"cls-7\" d=\"M671.4,634.17H934V581.62H671.4C677,581.62,677,634.17,671.4,634.17Z\"/\u003e\u003cpath class=\"cls-8\" d=\"M934,621V597c0-8.47-5.19-15.35-11.59-15.35H672.51a9.11,9.11,0,0,1-9.12-9.11h0a2.77,2.77,0,0,1,2.77-2.77H939.24c6.26,0,16.21,9.85,16.21,22v33.59c0,11.45-9.66,20.74-15.56,20.74H667.6a4.21,4.21,0,0,1-4.21-4.21h0a7.68,7.68,0,0,1,7.68-7.68H924C929.51,634.17,934,628.29,934,621Z\"/\u003e\u003cpath class=\"cls-9\" d=\"M926.67,593.41H680.49a1,1,0,0,1,0-2H926.67a1,1,0,0,1,0,2Z\"/\u003e\u003cpath class=\"cls-9\" d=\"M926.67,601.21H680.49a1,1,0,0,1,0-2H926.67a1,1,0,1,1,0,2Z\"/\u003e\u003cpath class=\"cls-9\" d=\"M926.67,609H680.49a1,1,0,0,1,0-2H926.67a1,1,0,0,1,0,2Z\"/\u003e\u003cpath class=\"cls-9\" d=\"M926.67,616.81H680.49a1,1,0,0,1,0-2H926.67a1,1,0,1,1,0,2Z\"/\u003e\u003cpath class=\"cls-9\" d=\"M926.67,624.61H680.49a1,1,0,0,1,0-2H926.67a1,1,0,0,1,0,2Z\"/\u003e\u003cpath class=\"cls-10\" d=\"M717.43,512.48H913.49a20.1,20.1,0,0,1,20.1,20.1v16.84a20.09,20.09,0,0,1-20.09,20.09H717.43a20.09,20.09,0,0,1-20.09-20.09V532.57A20.09,20.09,0,0,1,717.43,512.48Z\" transform=\"translate(1630.92 1081.98) rotate(180)\"/\u003e\u003crect class=\"cls-11\" x=\"879.13\" y=\"519.03\" width=\"27.75\" height=\"43.92\" rx=\"7.24\" transform=\"translate(1786.01 1081.98) rotate(180)\"/\u003e\u003crect class=\"cls-11\" x=\"864.63\" y=\"519.03\" width=\"10.41\" height=\"43.92\" rx=\"3.67\" transform=\"translate(1739.68 1081.98) rotate(180)\"/\u003e\u003cg class=\"cls-2\"\u003e\u003cpath class=\"cls-12\" d=\"M160.83,229.38A3.9,3.9,0,0,0,157.1,236c28.45,26.9,100.84,99.79,124.79,166,39,107.77,136.76,217.25,222.82,206.58C504.71,608.52,585.93,347.82,160.83,229.38Z\"/\u003e\u003cpath class=\"cls-4\" d=\"M204.9,261.16c1,.65,1.83,1.28,2.73,1.92l2.61,1.94,5.17,3.93c3.42,2.64,6.81,5.33,10.2,8q10.14,8.11,20.09,16.46c13.26,11.13,26.23,22.6,39,34.28s25.3,23.65,37.54,35.91,24.28,24.71,35.92,37.54A840.23,840.23,0,0,1,423.53,482c1.27,1.76,2.49,3.55,3.69,5.35l3.63,5.39,3.64,5.39c1.19,1.81,2.33,3.65,3.5,5.48,2.3,3.67,4.69,7.29,6.92,11l6.63,11.19a455.6,455.6,0,0,1,23.22,46.48.5.5,0,0,1-.91.4h0a496.06,496.06,0,0,0-24.1-45.83L443,515.73c-2.27-3.67-4.69-7.25-7-10.88-1.18-1.8-2.34-3.62-3.54-5.41l-3.69-5.33-3.68-5.32c-1.22-1.78-2.46-3.55-3.75-5.28-10-14.07-20.61-27.71-31.5-41.11S367.49,416.05,356,403.2c-23.2-25.61-47.71-50-72.93-73.64q-19-17.69-38.59-34.64-9.8-8.48-19.77-16.77-5-4.11-10-8.19l-5.07-4-2.55-2c-.86-.64-1.74-1.34-2.54-1.89l-.09-.06a.49.49,0,0,1-.13-.69A.49.49,0,0,1,204.9,261.16Z\"/\u003e\u003c/g\u003e\u003cg class=\"cls-2\"\u003e\u003cpath class=\"cls-13\" d=\"M381.22,568.8s-36.37,11.06-84.83-13.36c-45-22.65-150.57-79.94-200.28-84.85a2,2,0,0,1-.47-4c22.49-7.61,80.29-22.24,149.25-1.63C333.82,491.55,381.22,568.8,381.22,568.8Z\"/\u003e\u003cpath class=\"cls-14\" d=\"M140.8,470.52A84.12,84.12,0,0,1,156.48,469c1.31-.06,2.63-.06,4,0l3.95.05c2.62.16,5.27.23,7.89.49a177.82,177.82,0,0,1,31.11,5.63c2.58.59,5.07,1.46,7.6,2.23s5.06,1.5,7.52,2.47l7.44,2.72c1.25.43,2.45,1,3.66,1.5l3.64,1.56,3.64,1.56,1.82.79,1.78.87,7.11,3.47c1.18.59,2.38,1.14,3.54,1.76l3.47,1.86,7,3.71c9.22,5,18.4,10.12,27.44,15.46,4.54,2.63,9,5.33,13.55,8L316,531.29c8.93,5.48,17.86,11,26.91,16.17q6.78,3.94,13.8,7.36c2.37,1.06,4.72,2.2,7.16,3.09s4.89,1.75,7.37,2.55h0a.5.5,0,0,1,.32.63.51.51,0,0,1-.59.33,91.26,91.26,0,0,1-15-5q-7.23-3.18-14.22-6.87c-9.31-4.92-18.33-10.28-27.4-15.54l-13.58-7.89c-4.53-2.63-9.05-5.28-13.6-7.86q-13.62-7.8-27.42-15.28l-6.92-3.69c-2.31-1.23-4.61-2.47-6.95-3.61l-7-3.49-1.74-.87-1.79-.79L231.76,489a233.56,233.56,0,0,0-29.23-10.86c-2.5-.71-5-1.46-7.5-2.14l-7.6-1.8c-2.54-.54-5.11-1-7.66-1.51s-5.15-.79-7.72-1.2-5.18-.59-7.77-.89l-3.9-.27c-1.3-.1-2.6-.18-3.91-.2s-2.61-.09-3.91-.08l-3.92.05a75.74,75.74,0,0,0-7.82.57s-.07,0-.07-.05A.05.05,0,0,1,140.8,470.52Z\"/\u003e\u003c/g\u003e\u003cpath class=\"cls-15\" d=\"M593.44,611.8s-21.74-75.59,22.42-100.17c35.49-19.75,4.58,20.38-10,61.65a2.69,2.69,0,0,0,5,2c13.83-30.77,37.6-76.08,57.09-74.44,29.43,2.47,15.34,9-9.32,41.65s-20.24,44.59-.93,25.28,29.78-62.56,45.92-64.16,40.72,7.27,52.14,9.72-3.29,57.58-23.34,62.54-53.76-1.79-68,10,19.93,10.78,38.56,8.63,30.35-.3,15.15,17.6-45.76,13.42-65,4.38-33.64-8.32-24.55-3.13S667,632.21,679.09,631,653.31,668.6,593.44,611.8Z\"/\u003e\u003cpath class=\"cls-16\" d=\"M602.61,601.06c-.3,20.71-26.87,42.77-57.58,42.77S491.11,627.65,489.44,607c-4-49.23,24.89-48.72,55.59-48.72S603.36,549.89,602.61,601.06Z\"/\u003e\u003cellipse class=\"cls-17\" cx=\"547.59\" cy=\"577.1\" rx=\"77.84\" ry=\"20.35\" transform=\"matrix(1, -0.08, 0.08, 1, -44.61, 45.87)\"/\u003e\u0
    │   │   ├───subfinder
			123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000:===== Subfinder Metadata =====
Tool      : subfinder
Target    : hypertrends.com
Status    : SUCCESS
Command   : subfinder -silent -all -d hypertrends.com
Duration in seconds : 19.692629s
Start Time: 2025-09-09T16:33:00.836636+00:00
End Time  : 2025-09-09T16:33:20.529265+00:00
==========================

----- STDOUT -----
renewed-wahoo.st-dev.hypertrends.com
partner-org-1-081583.st-dev.hypertrends.com
anytown-inc-can.st-dev.hypertrends.com
honest-leopard.st-dev.hypertrends.com
septfiveone.st-dev.hypertrends.com
msporg2customer1.st-dev.hypertrends.com
choice-guinea.st-dev.hypertrends.com
refined-lemming.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sub-1-fdfca9.st-dev.hypertrends.com
rich-jay.st-dev.hypertrends.com
secure-prawn.st-dev.hypertrends.com
atonea.st-dev.hypertrends.com
org-f.st-dev.hypertrends.com
org-e.st-dev.hypertrends.com
ssa-cust1.st-dev.hypertrends.com
onetest.st-dev.hypertrends.com
dev-testing.st-dev.hypertrends.com
bkm-industries.st-dev.hypertrends.com
demo-inc.st-dev.hypertrends.com
july-31-2.st-dev.hypertrends.com
oriented-baboon.st-dev.hypertrends.com
fake-slug.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sub-1-37ea93.st-dev.hypertrends.com
faithful-guinea.st-dev.hypertrends.com
projects.hypertrends.com
hyperdailyapi-dev.hypertrends.com
testusap.st-dev.hypertrends.com
oxford-enterprise.st-dev.hypertrends.com
dtest.st-dev.hypertrends.com
my-test-org-two.st-dev.hypertrends.com
orange-inc.st-dev.hypertrends.com
neat-anteater.st-dev.hypertrends.com
my-test-org-one.st-dev.hypertrends.com
anytown-inc-1.st-dev.hypertrends.com
funny-pegasus.st-dev.hypertrends.com
zcustomer-0b7cd7.st-dev.hypertrends.com
new-user-s.st-dev.hypertrends.com
teaching-starling.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-8.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-4.st-dev.hypertrends.com
hub-dev.hypertrends.com
equal-rabbit.st-dev.hypertrends.com
demo1.hypertrends.com
thretestcxautodown.st-dev.hypertrends.com
partner.st-dev.hypertrends.com
magical-pegasus.st-dev.hypertrends.com
diverse-hagfish.st-dev.hypertrends.com
june30.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sub-1-ca6b50.st-dev.hypertrends.com
eager-kid.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-7.st-dev.hypertrends.com
berlin-orga.st-dev.hypertrends.com
bolt.st-dev.hypertrends.com
testing-c247.st-dev.hypertrends.com
anytown-inc-2.st-dev.hypertrends.com
partner-org-1-fb4567.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-3-414709.st-dev.hypertrends.com
july-31-3.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-6.st-dev.hypertrends.com
tata.st-dev.hypertrends.com
berlin-partner-5.st-dev.hypertrends.com
flavor-inc.st-dev.hypertrends.com
test-berlin-child.st-dev.hypertrends.com
berlin-new-child.st-dev.hypertrends.com
temp-org-202d.st-dev.hypertrends.com
atidsix.st-dev.hypertrends.com
inox.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cxtesttwelve.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cyberphisher-org.st-dev.hypertrends.com
actual-buck.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cxray-and-cphisher.st-dev.hypertrends.com
abacus-subsidiar-1fbcb.st-dev.hypertrends.com
fake-slug-f98ed8.st-dev.hypertrends.com
amazed-pup.st-dev.hypertrends.com
novel-oriole.st-dev.hypertrends.com
devoted-cub.st-dev.hypertrends.com
berlin-partner1.st-dev.hypertrends.com
handy-marten.st-dev.hypertrends.com
smooth-grizzly.st-dev.hypertrends.com
ethical-tick.st-dev.hypertrends.com
california-inc-24406b.st-dev.hypertrends.com
easy-alpaca.st-dev.hypertrends.com
flying-bug.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sub-2-491863.st-dev.hypertrends.com
msp1cust2oct.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sub-dan.st-dev.hypertrends.com
acme-llc.st-dev.hypertrends.com
informed-duckling.st-dev.hypertrends.com
onetesta-e5f651.st-dev.hypertrends.com
provision-test-20e14e.st-dev.hypertrends.com
solid-wildcat.st-dev.hypertrends.com
org-1-458a9f.st-dev.hypertrends.com
superfly.st-dev.hypertrends.com
atidfive.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cxtestnine.st-dev.hypertrends.com
msp1cust1oct.st-dev.hypertrends.com
berlin-b4f10c.st-dev.hypertrends.com
canada-corporation.st-dev.hypertrends.com
apt-moray.st-dev.hypertrends.com
chief-flamingo.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sub-ds.st-dev.hypertrends.com
ssa.st-dev.hypertrends.com
support.hypertrends.com
child-1-d3aa90.st-dev.hypertrends.com
mutual-bullfrog.st-dev.hypertrends.com
comic-bass.st-dev.hypertrends.com
meta-data.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sound-adder.st-dev.hypertrends.com
onetesta.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cxtestfour.st-dev.hypertrends.com
post-db-upgrade-test.st-dev.hypertrends.com
deciding-bengal.st-dev.hypertrends.com
test-pa-child-two.st-dev.hypertrends.com
careful-quetzal.st-dev.hypertrends.com
clever-chicken.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sub-1-0f20c2.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sub-3.st-dev.hypertrends.com
paytm.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cxtestthirteen.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sep-16-test.st-dev.hypertrends.com
new-sub-2.st-dev.hypertrends.com
main-sheep.st-dev.hypertrends.com
modern-elephant.st-dev.hypertrends.com
deciding-hare.st-dev.hypertrends.com
summary-perch.st-dev.hypertrends.com
intense-swift.st-dev.hypertrends.com
mspporg1customer1.st-dev.hypertrends.com
partner-org-2.st-dev.hypertrends.com
venom.st-dev.hypertrends.com
lic-group.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cxtesteight.st-dev.hypertrends.com
aug-1-1.st-dev.hypertrends.com
berlin-organi.st-dev.hypertrends.com
berlin-partner-thr.st-dev.hypertrends.com
provision-test.st-dev.hypertrends.com
berlin.st-dev.hypertrends.com
mspporg1customer2.st-dev.hypertrends.com
partner1.st-dev.hypertrends.com
testedcanada.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sub-sub-dan.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sub-3-b417b2.st-dev.hypertrends.com
infinite-bull.st-dev.hypertrends.com
normal-arachnid.st-dev.hypertrends.com
abacus-org-4.st-dev.hypertrends.com
msporg1customer1.st-dev.hypertrends.com
testusa.st-dev.hypertrends.com
jio-communications.st-dev.hypertrends.com
mutual-treefrog.st-dev.hypertrends.com
great-grouper.st-dev.hypertrends.com
curious-sunfish.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sub-1-6ab226.st-dev.hypertrends.com
grand-fawn.st-dev.hypertrends.com
james-test.st-dev.hypertrends.com
enabled-crawfish.st-dev.hypertrends.com
org-b.st-dev.hypertrends.com
glowing-foal.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-1.st-dev.hypertrends.com
moral-quagga.st-dev.hypertrends.com
test-slug.st-dev.hypertrends.com
aneworga.st-dev.hypertrends.com
tester-group.st-dev.hypertrends.com
assured-insect.st-dev.hypertrends.com
itc.st-dev.hypertrends.com
msporg1customer2.st-dev.hypertrends.com
c247-final-test.st-dev.hypertrends.com
trusting-fox.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cybercatch-demo.st-dev.hypertrends.com
rama-steel-tube.st-dev.hypertrends.com
caretabsapidev.hypertrends.com
aaa-kaushal-test.st-dev.hypertrends.com
fake-slug-d8641b.st-dev.hypertrends.com
helping-chipmunk.st-dev.hypertrends.com
optimal-gelding.st-dev.hypertrends.com
acme-inc.st-dev.hypertrends.com
berlin-test.st-dev.hypertrends.com
musical-ladybird.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sample.st-dev.hypertrends.com
destined-pony.st-dev.hypertrends.com
temp-org-c13a.st-dev.hypertrends.com
apparent-kid.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-1-097108.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cxtestfifteen-f233ba.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cis-test.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-1-0ba871.st-dev.hypertrends.com
berlin-sub.st-dev.hypertrends.com
fast-mastiff.st-dev.hypertrends.com
communal-ladybird.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cxtestthree.st-dev.hypertrends.com
tester-berlin-inc.st-dev.hypertrends.com
related-amoeba.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-3-9e82ac.st-dev.hypertrends.com
atidseven.st-dev.hypertrends.com
customer-org.st-dev.hypertrends.com
guiding-squid.st-dev.hypertrends.com
proud-herring.st-dev.hypertrends.com
huge-dolphin.st-dev.hypertrends.com
org-a.st-dev.hypertrends.com
california-inc.st-dev.hypertrends.com
ca-dev-test.st-ca-dev.hypertrends.com
okta-inc.st-dev.hypertrends.com
harmless-ghoul.st-dev.hypertrends.com
bruce-sub-ent.st-dev.hypertrends.com
superfly-inc.st-dev.hypertrends.com
july1.st-dev.hypertrends.com
fair-dane.st-dev.hypertrends.com
org-4.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cute-walrus.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-11.st-dev.hypertrends.com
c247-test-id-and-97150.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sub-t-rex.st-dev.hypertrends.com
twotestcxautodown.st-dev.hypertrends.com
test-partner-child.st-dev.hypertrends.com
funny-cod.st-dev.hypertrends.com
worthy-ram.st-dev.hypertrends.com
july4.st-dev.hypertrends.com
zap-hub-test-org.st-dev.hypertrends.com
aug-1-2.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-1-6d2450.st-dev.hypertrends.com
prompt-shiner.st-dev.hypertrends.com
flowing-akita.st-dev.hypertrends.com
msporg2customer3.st-dev.hypertrends.com
ber-provision-two.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cyber-hub.st-dev.hypertrends.com
deciding-grackle.st-dev.hypertrends.com
atidt.st-dev.hypertrends.com
t-rex.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sub-2.st-dev.hypertrends.com
msporg2customer2.st-dev.hypertrends.com
bharat-pe.st-dev.hypertrends.com
org-2-9bb9ea.st-dev.hypertrends.com
threetestb.st-dev.hypertrends.com
berlin-qa-test.st-dev.hypertrends.com
partner-org-1.st-dev.hypertrends.com
accurate-yak.st-dev.hypertrends.com
e2e-organization.st-dev.hypertrends.com
abacus-org-1.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-2.st-dev.hypertrends.com
org-1.st-dev.hypertrends.com
test-p-child-three.st-dev.hypertrends.com
thor-marvel.st-dev.hypertrends.com
abacus-subsidiar-d4233.st-dev.hypertrends.com
ka-test.st-dev.hypertrends.com
uncommon-pigeon.st-dev.hypertrends.com
together-colt.st-dev.hypertrends.com
mars-inc.st-dev.hypertrends.com
evolved-grub.st-dev.hypertrends.com
anytown-inc-can-6fdcee.st-dev.hypertrends.com
canada-test-inc.st-dev.hypertrends.com
belin-sub-sub.st-dev.hypertrends.com
albatross-inc.st-dev.hypertrends.com
customerorginpartn.st-dev.hypertrends.com
tester.st-dev.hypertrends.com
bruce.st-dev.hypertrends.com
vital-barnacle.st-dev.hypertrends.com
back-test.st-dev.hypertrends.com
zcustomer.st-dev.hypertrends.com
demo-flag.st-dev.hypertrends.com
poetic-urchin.st-dev.hypertrends.com
abacus-subsidiary.st-dev.hypertrends.com
learning-kitten.st-dev.hypertrends.com
next-spider.st-dev.hypertrends.com
abc-incl.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cosmic-minnow.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cybercatch-demo-canada.st-dev.hypertrends.com
june27-1.st-dev.hypertrends.com
busy-arachnid.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-1-7d266c.st-dev.hypertrends.com
abacus-org.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sub-1-19da50.st-dev.hypertrends.com
normal-asp.st-dev.hypertrends.com
innocent-whippet.st-dev.hypertrends.com
aa-test-5674f1.st-dev.hypertrends.com
partner-org-3.st-dev.hypertrends.com
test.st-dev.hypertrends.com
bros-group.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cxtestfifteen.st-dev.hypertrends.com
customer-one-eb59d8.st-dev.hypertrends.com
demo-org.st-dev.hypertrends.com
live-hookworm.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cxtestten.st-dev.hypertrends.com
daring-sole.st-dev.hypertrends.com
together-cardinal.st-dev.hypertrends.com
worthy-shepherd.st-dev.hypertrends.com
aaa-test-a1027d.st-dev.hypertrends.com
hopeful-flea.st-dev.hypertrends.com
green-ltd-d73df4.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sub-1-9ec340.st-dev.hypertrends.com
albatross-east-coast.st-dev.hypertrends.com
test-payment-workflow.st-dev.hypertrends.com
pet-firefly.st-dev.hypertrends.com
org-1-904199.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sub-org.st-dev.hypertrends.com
chief-dory.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cxtestsix.st-dev.hypertrends.com
grand-gibbon.st-dev.hypertrends.com
absolute-boa.st-dev.hypertrends.com
july-31-4.st-dev.hypertrends.com
leading-cobra.st-dev.hypertrends.com
precise-pelican.st-dev.hypertrends.com
july-31-1.st-dev.hypertrends.com
ace-dingo.st-dev.hypertrends.com
todday.st-dev.hypertrends.com
org-c.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cricket-wireless.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cxtestfive.st-dev.hypertrends.com
berlin-partner123.st-dev.hypertrends.com
test-client-id-s-41230.st-dev.hypertrends.com
advanced-sheep.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-car-home.st-dev.hypertrends.com
customer.st-dev.hypertrends.com
atida.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sub-bolt.st-dev.hypertrends.com
ka-test-77859d.st-dev.hypertrends.com
organic-pig.st-dev.hypertrends.com
rich-earwig.st-dev.hypertrends.com
org-d.st-dev.hypertrends.com
partner-org-1-63a7af.st-dev.hypertrends.com
united-lemur.st-dev.hypertrends.com
pure-sloth.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cx-cp-child.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-5.st-dev.hypertrends.com
romantic-bluegill.st-dev.hypertrends.com
ccztc247t.st-dev.hypertrends.com
org-3-165513.st-dev.hypertrends.com
anytown-inc-canada.st-dev.hypertrends.com
fond-collie.st-dev.hypertrends.com
improved-burro.st-dev.hypertrends.com
superb-racer.st-dev.hypertrends.com
org-1-8be659.st-dev.hypertrends.com
aidone.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-9.st-dev.hypertrends.com
right-oriole.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cxtestone.st-dev.hypertrends.com
meta.st-dev.hypertrends.com
set-parakeet.st-dev.hypertrends.com
evident-bream.st-dev.hypertrends.com
berlin-test-org.st-dev.hypertrends.com
wise-wombat.st-dev.hypertrends.com
atidnine.st-dev.hypertrends.com
magical-jackass.st-dev.hypertrends.com
many-ram.st-dev.hypertrends.com
atidfour.st-dev.hypertrends.com
testing-again.st-dev.hypertrends.com
oriented-sponge.st-dev.hypertrends.com
native-kitten.st-dev.hypertrends.com
dashing-pug.st-dev.hypertrends.com
stirring-monster.st-dev.hypertrends.com
abacus-complianc-d1979.st-dev.hypertrends.com
www.hypertrends.com
cxtesttwo.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sub.st-dev.hypertrends.com
fourtestb.st-dev.hypertrends.com
real-moccasin.st-dev.hypertrends.com
joint-beetle.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sensible-finch.st-dev.hypertrends.com
trusty-bedbug.st-dev.hypertrends.com
accdone.st-dev.hypertrends.com
perfect-gazelle.st-dev.hypertrends.com
flowing-hedgehog.st-dev.hypertrends.com
domo-inc.st-dev.hypertrends.com
mint-bird.st-dev.hypertrends.com
organization-b.st-dev.hypertrends.com
classic-sheepdog.st-dev.hypertrends.com
vocal-baboon.st-dev.hypertrends.com
berlin-partner-one.st-dev.hypertrends.com
good-shrimp.st-dev.hypertrends.com
aidthree.st-dev.hypertrends.com
dan-ent.st-dev.hypertrends.com
refined-raptor.st-dev.hypertrends.com
customerorg3.st-dev.hypertrends.com
berlin-partner-f-e.st-dev.hypertrends.com
noble-swine.st-dev.hypertrends.com
james-test-a19dc3.st-dev.hypertrends.com
secure-rhino.st-dev.hypertrends.com
aaa-test.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-2-36d43b.st-dev.hypertrends.com
st-dev.hypertrends.com
cxtestseven.st-dev.hypertrends.com
aidteight.st-dev.hypertrends.com
factual-bison.st-dev.hypertrends.com
possible-sunbeam.st-dev.hypertrends.com
tz-3-09eb56.st-dev.hypertrends.com
grand-seagull.st-dev.hypertrends.com
abacus-org-2.st-dev.hypertrends.com
noted-raptor.st-dev.hypertrends.com
septfivetwo.st-dev.hypertrends.com
org-g.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sub-1-b9f582.st-dev.hypertrends.com
zcustomer-31c1fe.st-dev.hypertrends.com
lone-star-corp.st-dev.hypertrends.com
organization-a.st-dev.hypertrends.com
org-3.st-dev.hypertrends.com
probable-lioness.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cxtestfourteen.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cxtesta.st-dev.hypertrends.com
ssa-ds.st-dev.hypertrends.com
qa-org.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sub-1-5ddd10.st-dev.hypertrends.com
testcanadap.st-dev.hypertrends.com
testing-org-c1e5ad.st-dev.hypertrends.com
massive-flea.st-dev.hypertrends.com
tapi.hypertrends.com
cs.st-dev.hypertrends.com
bayern-sub.st-dev.hypertrends.com
onetestcxautodown.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sub-1.st-dev.hypertrends.com
part.st-dev.hypertrends.com
tz-child-two.st-dev.hypertrends.com
lucifer-inc.st-dev.hypertrends.com
july-28-1.st-dev.hypertrends.com
berlin-provision.st-dev.hypertrends.com
divine-sponge.st-dev.hypertrends.com
finer-cheetah.st-dev.hypertrends.com
demo2.hypertrends.com
zcustomer-5dc983.st-dev.hypertrends.com
tough-peacock.st-dev.hypertrends.com
logical-bear.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sought-emu.st-dev.hypertrends.com
mspporg1customer3.st-dev.hypertrends.com
temp-org-test.st-dev.hypertrends.com
devoted-opossum.st-dev.hypertrends.com
bayern.st-dev.hypertrends.com
ford-motors-corp.st-dev.hypertrends.com
dancop.st-dev.hypertrends.com
golden-chipmunk.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-3.st-dev.hypertrends.com
brutus.st-dev.hypertrends.com
htwebsite.hypertrends.com
abacus-org-3.st-dev.hypertrends.com
aug-1-3.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-cyberphisher.st-dev.hypertrends.com
jk-61ec40.st-dev.hypertrends.com
hardy-parrot.st-dev.hypertrends.com
twotestadev.st-dev.hypertrends.com
savvy.st-dev.hypertrends.com
june27.st-dev.hypertrends.com
msporg1customer3.st-dev.hypertrends.com
tz-3.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-10.st-dev.hypertrends.com
aug-24-1.st-dev.hypertrends.com
june-two-nine.st-dev.hypertrends.com
riddler.st-dev.hypertrends.com
adding-sub.st-dev.hypertrends.com
aa-test.st-dev.hypertrends.com
apple-test.st-dev.hypertrends.com
hardik-ht-inc.st-dev.hypertrends.com
berlin-partner-two.st-dev.hypertrends.com
james-test-dev.st-dev.hypertrends.com
org-2.st-dev.hypertrends.com
enough-anteater.st-dev.hypertrends.com
primary-foal.st-dev.hypertrends.com
tz-child.st-dev.hypertrends.com
big-bull-co.st-dev.hypertrends.com
berlin-organ.st-dev.hypertrends.com

----- STDERR -----


    │   │   ├───summary
    │   │   └───theharvester
				123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000:===== Theharvester Metadata =====
Tool      : theharvester
Target    : hypertrends.com
Status    : SUCCESS
Command   : theHarvester -b all -l 200 -d hypertrends.com
Duration in seconds : 63.229822s
Start Time: 2025-09-09T16:36:26.852601+00:00
End Time  : 2025-09-09T16:37:30.082423+00:00
==========================

----- STDOUT -----
Read proxies.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/proxies.yaml
*******************************************************************
*  _   _                                            _             *
* | |_| |__   ___    /\  /\__ _ _ ____   _____  ___| |_ ___ _ __  *
* | __|  _ \ / _ \  / /_/ / _` | '__\ \ / / _ \/ __| __/ _ \ '__| *
* | |_| | | |  __/ / __  / (_| | |   \ V /  __/\__ \ ||  __/ |    *
*  \__|_| |_|\___| \/ /_/ \__,_|_|    \_/ \___||___/\__\___|_|    *
*                                                                 *
* theHarvester 4.8.2                                              *
* Coded by Christian Martorella                                   *
* Edge-Security Research                                          *
* cmartorella@edge-security.com                                   *
*                                                                 *
*******************************************************************

[*] Target: hypertrends.com 

Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for bevigil. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for bufferoverun. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for Censys ID and/or Secret. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for criminalip. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for Dehashed. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for DNSDumpster. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for fullhunt. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml
Error initializing SearchGithubCode: 
[!] Missing API key for Github. 

[!] Missing API key for Github. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for Hunter. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for hunterhow. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for Intelx. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for netlas. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for onyphe. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for PentestTools. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for ProjectDiscovery. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for RocketReach. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for Securitytrail. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for Shodan. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for Tomba Key and/or Secret. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for Venacus. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for virustotal. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for whoisxml. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for zoomeye. 
Error in BuiltWith search: 200, message='Attempt to decode JSON with unexpected mimetype: text/json; charset=utf-8', url='https://api.builtwith.com/v21/api.json?KEY=None&LOOKUP=hypertrends.com'
[*] Searching Builtwith. 
An exception has occurred: Server disconnected
[*] Searching Baidu. 
	Searching 0 results.
[*] Searching Bing. 
[*] Searching Brave. 
	Searching results.
[*] Searching Certspotter. 
[*] Searching Duckduckgo. 
Error in HaveIBeenPwned search: Cannot serialize non-str key None
[*] Searching Haveibeenpwned. 
[*] Searching CRTsh. 
[*] Searching Leaklookup. 
[*] Searching Hackertarget. 
[!] Missing API key for SecurityScorecard.
Error in SecurityScorecard search: 
[!] Missing API key for SecurityScorecard. 
[*] Searching Securityscorecard. 
[*] Searching Otx. 
[*] Searching Rapiddns. 
Sitedossier module has triggered a captcha on first iteration, no results can be found.
Change IPs, manually solve the captcha, or wait before rerunning Sitedossier module
[*] Searching Sitedossier. 
[*] Searching Subdomaincenter. 
An exception has occurred: 500, message='Attempt to decode JSON with unexpected mimetype: text/html; charset=utf-8', url='https://api.threatminer.org/v2/domain.php?q=hypertrends.com&rt=5'
[*] Searching Subdomainfinderc99. 
[*] Searching Urlscan. 
[*] Searching Yahoo. 

[*] ASNS found: 1
--------------------
AS26347

[*] Interesting Urls found: 1
--------------------
https://www.hypertrends.com/

[*] No LinkedIn users found.



[*] LinkedIn Links found: 0
---------------------

[*] IPs found: 407
-------------------
100.24.111.83
100.24.138.75
100.24.172.149
100.24.211.179
100.24.245.87
100.25.187.92
107.180.250.162
107.20.122.74
107.21.141.51
107.21.169.105
107.21.42.142
107.22.71.156
107.22.83.63
107.23.109.122
107.23.17.243
107.23.194.180
107.23.22.11
173.236.239.251
174.120.234.61
174.129.17.212
18.204.0.132
18.205.136.131
18.205.50.66
18.208.90.16
18.209.139.42
18.209.194.147
18.210.174.217
18.210.249.214
18.210.45.59
18.211.44.7
18.211.52.211
18.213.153.250
18.213.8.119
18.214.117.93
18.214.143.156
18.214.172.141
18.214.21.202
18.214.224.85
18.214.24.45
18.214.30.60
18.232.16.124
18.232.19.132
18.233.142.45
18.233.252.13
18.235.235.159
184.72.181.209
23.20.186.191
23.20.199.74
23.21.177.247
23.21.86.69
23.21.98.133
23.22.22.35
3.208.116.223
3.209.102.133
3.209.103.125
3.209.146.206
3.209.233.244
3.210.159.45
3.210.49.162
3.210.91.142
3.210.96.22
3.211.108.54
3.211.172.13
3.211.188.223
3.211.64.57
3.212.187.197
3.212.86.29
3.213.106.9
3.213.59.187
3.213.86.187
3.214.133.186
3.214.200.89
3.214.88.14
3.215.49.223
3.216.163.174
3.216.236.103
3.216.47.72
3.217.47.146
3.218.171.58
3.218.218.88
3.219.129.24
3.219.77.251
3.221.165.48
3.221.23.121
3.221.47.252
3.222.126.156
3.222.36.129
3.222.38.37
3.222.92.54
3.223.236.10
3.223.250.175
3.224.180.95
3.224.185.250
3.224.201.98
3.224.85.203
3.225.111.144
3.225.138.225
3.225.140.187
3.225.182.196
3.225.74.246
3.225.99.61
3.226.21.128
3.227.162.24
3.228.137.134
3.228.193.133
3.228.29.64
3.229.201.77
3.229.32.182
3.229.55.76
3.230.140.106
3.230.246.122
3.230.64.162
3.231.39.232
3.232.144.103
3.233.138.232
3.233.167.126
3.233.211.183
3.233.25.116
3.234.127.194
3.234.13.17
3.234.165.67
3.234.83.177
3.234.92.218
3.90.73.83
3.93.106.214
3.94.18.142
3.94.23.154
3.97.165.243
34.192.224.11
34.192.247.171
34.193.170.208
34.193.172.197
34.193.71.136
34.193.73.178
34.194.223.212
34.194.9.202
34.195.28.87
34.195.37.70
34.195.4.154
34.196.149.224
34.196.162.48
34.196.3.67
34.197.10.205
34.197.118.133
34.197.152.214
34.197.199.222
34.198.139.142
34.198.96.199
34.199.159.100
34.199.238.168
34.199.57.202
34.200.115.26
34.200.146.114
34.200.50.145
34.200.56.105
34.200.99.97
34.201.95.223
34.202.66.26
34.202.92.249
34.203.127.233
34.203.170.48
34.203.182.207
34.204.118.114
34.204.224.153
34.205.165.83
34.205.168.85
34.205.204.64
34.205.253.215
34.205.83.66
34.206.139.96
34.206.247.172
34.207.35.114
34.224.240.220
34.225.67.7
34.226.230.142
34.226.89.65
34.226.99.91
34.227.253.166
34.230.148.180
34.231.103.85
34.231.17.230
34.231.17.251
34.232.121.234
34.232.166.77
34.233.177.67
34.233.180.143
34.233.192.66
34.234.206.146
34.235.106.8
34.235.250.223
34.236.110.93
34.236.218.208
34.236.224.154
34.237.10.11
34.237.187.184
34.237.195.177
34.237.27.240
34.237.36.193
34.237.88.244
34.238.108.242
34.239.2.160
34.239.225.186
34.239.76.91
34.239.87.143
34.239.87.93
35.168.100.33
35.168.74.113
35.169.70.174
35.170.127.22
35.170.163.120
35.171.107.176
35.171.118.29
35.171.221.181
35.171.234.17
35.171.80.235
35.172.82.207
35.173.106.24
35.174.181.247
35.174.95.105
35.175.15.236
35.175.165.47
35.175.68.238
44.193.148.56
44.194.252.114
44.195.13.153
44.196.166.0
44.196.33.111
44.197.222.6
44.197.33.194
44.197.58.91
44.198.243.12
44.199.156.39
44.199.24.206
44.205.229.191
44.215.46.28
50.17.243.32
50.17.65.50
50.17.66.156
50.19.244.105
50.19.56.200
50.19.8.240
52.0.135.37
52.0.163.22
52.0.197.216
52.0.44.7
52.1.132.136
52.1.3.148
52.2.114.243
52.2.193.138
52.2.199.191
52.2.208.156
52.2.3.251
52.2.94.213
52.20.144.196
52.20.23.52
52.20.94.210
52.200.111.148
52.200.204.112
52.200.72.81
52.201.101.50
52.202.136.171
52.203.137.60
52.203.162.69
52.203.218.114
52.204.192.228
52.204.5.46
52.205.149.111
52.205.161.14
52.205.230.224
52.205.67.193
52.206.81.193
52.207.127.201
52.207.127.253
52.207.26.234
52.21.251.131
52.21.78.166
52.22.119.115
52.22.141.131
52.22.144.32
52.22.171.250
52.22.187.210
52.22.197.147
52.22.228.219
52.22.255.93
52.22.89.4
52.23.101.112
52.23.78.13
52.4.112.193
52.4.139.244
52.4.166.102
52.4.85.239
52.44.115.142
52.44.198.177
52.44.218.135
52.45.109.131
52.45.199.8
52.5.227.91
52.5.56.90
52.5.65.243
52.54.25.188
52.54.28.67
52.55.248.244
52.55.31.12
52.55.61.158
52.7.173.247
52.70.128.13
52.70.222.26
52.70.223.151
52.71.232.252
52.71.62.1
52.72.136.55
52.73.105.226
52.73.106.147
52.73.164.191
52.73.76.177
52.86.144.128
52.86.214.18
52.86.96.239
54.144.35.100
54.144.58.127
54.144.75.21
54.145.105.230
54.145.111.226
54.145.24.244
54.145.29.75
54.145.43.190
54.146.155.30
54.146.187.66
54.147.170.51
54.156.18.5
54.158.165.117
54.158.225.152
54.160.110.104
54.161.48.103
54.162.131.225
54.162.132.107
54.163.80.183
54.164.105.18
54.164.130.112
54.164.215.223
54.164.217.191
54.165.149.34
54.165.198.166
54.165.5.35
54.166.112.14
54.167.137.22
54.167.209.1
54.172.140.180
54.172.197.243
54.173.183.123
54.173.200.143
54.174.176.100
54.175.20.193
54.175.249.81
54.197.179.214
54.197.180.5
54.197.20.93
54.198.28.47
54.204.143.153
54.209.199.139
54.210.1.70
54.211.221.240
54.221.190.236
54.221.234.253
54.224.132.196
54.224.242.128
54.225.140.111
54.225.240.217
54.227.131.249
54.227.2.104
54.227.232.6
54.234.115.125
54.234.168.235
54.234.85.73
54.235.37.101
54.235.75.14
54.236.197.169
54.236.83.207
54.236.87.240
54.237.197.14
54.242.20.67
54.243.107.180
54.243.111.76
54.243.194.152
54.81.24.154
54.83.184.41
54.83.24.207
54.84.10.49
54.84.158.238
54.84.181.203
54.84.213.62
54.85.105.127
54.86.38.201
54.88.101.254
54.88.16.104
54.88.194.58
54.88.78.30
54.89.12.2
54.91.90.96
54.92.151.213
54.92.239.238
72.44.53.82
72.47.228.109
76.76.21.123
76.76.21.93
99.79.27.223

[*] No emails found.

[*] No people found.

[*] Hosts found: 195
---------------------
*.hypertrends.com
aa-test.st-dev.hypertrends.com
abc-incl.st-dev.hypertrends.com
absolute-boa.st-dev.hypertrends.com
accdone.st-dev.hypertrends.com
accurate-yak.st-dev.hypertrends.com
ace-dingo.st-dev.hypertrends.com
advanced-sheep.st-dev.hypertrends.com
aidthree.st-dev.hypertrends.com
aneworga.st-dev.hypertrends.com
anytown-inc-2.st-dev.hypertrends.com
anytown-inc-can-6fdcee.st-dev.hypertrends.com
anytown-inc-can.st-dev.hypertrends.com
anytown-inc-canada.st-dev.hypertrends.com
atida.st-dev.hypertrends.com
atidfive.st-dev.hypertrends.com
atidfour.st-dev.hypertrends.com
atidnine.st-dev.hypertrends.com
atidseven.st-dev.hypertrends.com
atidsix.st-dev.hypertrends.com
atidt.st-dev.hypertrends.com
bayern-sub.st-dev.hypertrends.com
bayern.st-dev.hypertrends.com
ber-provision-two.st-dev.hypertrends.com
berlin-new-child.st-dev.hypertrends.com
berlin-partner1.st-dev.hypertrends.com
berlin-sub.st-dev.hypertrends.com
berlin.st-dev.hypertrends.com
big-bull-co.st-dev.hypertrends.com
bkm-industries.st-dev.hypertrends.com
bros-group.st-dev.hypertrends.com
bruce-sub-ent.st-dev.hypertrends.com
bruce.st-dev.hypertrends.com
brutus.st-dev.hypertrends.com
ca-dev-test.st-ca-dev.hypertrends.com
california-inc-24406b.st-dev.hypertrends.com
california-inc.st-dev.hypertrends.com
canada-test-inc.st-dev.hypertrends.com
caretabsapidev.hypertrends.com
ccztc247t.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-1-097108.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-1.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-10.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-2-36d43b.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-3-414709.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-3-9e82ac.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-3.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-4.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-5.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-6.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-7.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-8.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-9.st-dev.hypertrends.com
classic-sheepdog.st-dev.hypertrends.com
comic-bass.st-dev.hypertrends.com
communal-ladybird.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cricket-wireless.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cs.st-dev.hypertrends.com
curious-sunfish.st-dev.hypertrends.com
customer.st-dev.hypertrends.com
customerorginpartn.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cute-walrus.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cx-cp-child.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cxray-and-cphisher.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cyber-hub.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cybercatch-demo-canada.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cybercatch-demo.st-dev.hypertrends.com
dan-ent.st-dev.hypertrends.com
dashing-pug.st-dev.hypertrends.com
deciding-hare.st-dev.hypertrends.com
demo-flag.st-dev.hypertrends.com
demo-inc.st-dev.hypertrends.com
destined-pony.st-dev.hypertrends.com
dev-testing.st-dev.hypertrends.com
dtest.st-dev.hypertrends.com
easy-alpaca.st-dev.hypertrends.com
enabled-crawfish.st-dev.hypertrends.com
enough-anteater.st-dev.hypertrends.com
evident-bream.st-dev.hypertrends.com
evolved-grub.st-dev.hypertrends.com
fast-mastiff.st-dev.hypertrends.com
flowing-akita.st-dev.hypertrends.com
flowing-hedgehog.st-dev.hypertrends.com
flying-bug.st-dev.hypertrends.com
fond-collie.st-dev.hypertrends.com
ford-motors-corp.st-dev.hypertrends.com
grand-seagull.st-dev.hypertrends.com
great-grouper.st-dev.hypertrends.com
green-ltd-d73df4.st-dev.hypertrends.com
honest-leopard.st-dev.hypertrends.com
hub-dev.hypertrends.com
hyperdailyapi-dev.hypertrends.com
improved-burro.st-dev.hypertrends.com
inox.st-dev.hypertrends.com
itc.st-dev.hypertrends.com
james-test-a19dc3.st-dev.hypertrends.com
james-test-dev.st-dev.hypertrends.com
james-test.st-dev.hypertrends.com
joint-beetle.st-dev.hypertrends.com
july-31-1.st-dev.hypertrends.com
july4.st-dev.hypertrends.com
ka-test-77859d.st-dev.hypertrends.com
lic-group.st-dev.hypertrends.com
live-hookworm.st-dev.hypertrends.com
logical-bear.st-dev.hypertrends.com
lone-star-corp.st-dev.hypertrends.com
magical-jackass.st-dev.hypertrends.com
mars-inc.st-dev.hypertrends.com
msp1cust2oct.st-dev.hypertrends.com
msporg2customer2.st-dev.hypertrends.com
mspporg1customer1.st-dev.hypertrends.com
mspporg1customer2.st-dev.hypertrends.com
mspporg1customer3.st-dev.hypertrends.com
my-test-org-two.st-dev.hypertrends.com
neat-anteater.st-dev.hypertrends.com
normal-arachnid.st-dev.hypertrends.com
noted-raptor.st-dev.hypertrends.com
okta-inc.st-dev.hypertrends.com
onetesta-e5f651.st-dev.hypertrends.com
onetesta-e5f651.st-dev.hypertrends.com:34.192.150.170
onetesta-e5f651.st-dev.hypertrends.com:34.193.2.123
onetesta-e5f651.st-dev.hypertrends.com:34.237.205.218
onetesta-e5f651.st-dev.hypertrends.com:52.55.234.251
onetesta-e5f651.st-dev.hypertrends.com:54.164.56.117
onetesta-e5f651.st-dev.hypertrends.com:75.101.232.18
onetesta.st-dev.hypertrends.com
orange-inc.st-dev.hypertrends.com
org-2-9bb9ea.st-dev.hypertrends.com
org-2.st-dev.hypertrends.com
org-3-165513.st-dev.hypertrends.com
org-4.st-dev.hypertrends.com
org-a.st-dev.hypertrends.com
org-c.st-dev.hypertrends.com
organic-pig.st-dev.hypertrends.com
organization-b.st-dev.hypertrends.com
oxford-enterprise.st-dev.hypertrends.com
partner-org-1-081583.st-dev.hypertrends.com
partner-org-2.st-dev.hypertrends.com
partner.st-dev.hypertrends.com
paytm.st-dev.hypertrends.com
perfect-gazelle.st-dev.hypertrends.com
pet-firefly.st-dev.hypertrends.com
poetic-urchin.st-dev.hypertrends.com
provision-test-20e14e.st-dev.hypertrends.com
provision-test.st-dev.hypertrends.com
qa-org.st-dev.hypertrends.com
rama-steel-tube.st-dev.hypertrends.com
refined-raptor.st-dev.hypertrends.com
rich-earwig.st-dev.hypertrends.com
rich-jay.st-dev.hypertrends.com
right-oriole.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sample.st-dev.hypertrends.com
secure-prawn.st-dev.hypertrends.com
secure-rhino.st-dev.hypertrends.com
solid-wildcat.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sought-emu.st-dev.hypertrends.com
ssa-cust1.st-dev.hypertrends.com
ssa-ds.st-dev.hypertrends.com
st-dev.hypertrends.com
stirring-monster.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sub-1-0f20c2.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sub-1-fdfca9.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sub-3.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sub-dan.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sub-ds.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sub-sub-dan.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sub-t-rex.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sub.st-dev.hypertrends.com
superb-racer.st-dev.hypertrends.com
superfly-inc.st-dev.hypertrends.com
t-rex.st-dev.hypertrends.com
tapi.hypertrends.com
tapi.hypertrends.com:52.55.61.158
tata.st-dev.hypertrends.com
temp-org-202d.st-dev.hypertrends.com
test-berlin-child.st-dev.hypertrends.com
test-payment-workflow.st-dev.hypertrends.com
test-slug.st-dev.hypertrends.com
test.st-dev.hypertrends.com
tester-group.st-dev.hypertrends.com
tester.st-dev.hypertrends.com
testing-again.st-dev.hypertrends.com
testing-c247.st-dev.hypertrends.com
thretestcxautodown.st-dev.hypertrends.com
tough-peacock.st-dev.hypertrends.com
twotestadev.st-dev.hypertrends.com
tz-3-09eb56.st-dev.hypertrends.com
tz-child.st-dev.hypertrends.com
venom.st-dev.hypertrends.com
vital-barnacle.st-dev.hypertrends.com
vocal-baboon.st-dev.hypertrends.com
worthy-shepherd.st-dev.hypertrends.com
zap-hub-test-org.st-dev.hypertrends.com
zcustomer-5dc983.st-dev.hypertrends.com
zcustomer.st-dev.hypertrends.com

[*] Starting API endpoint scanning with wordlist: /opt/homebrew/Cellar/theharvester/4.8.2/libexec/lib/python3.13/site-packages/theHarvester/data/wordlists/api_endpoints.txt

[*] API Endpoints found: 0

[*] Interesting endpoints (200, 201, 202): 0

[*] Endpoints requiring authentication: 0

[*] Detected API versions: 0

[*] Rate limited endpoints: 0

[*] HTTP methods used: 

[*] HTTP status codes encountered: 

[+] API scanning completed successfully.

[*] Performing SecurityScorecard scan...
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml
[!] Missing API key for SecurityScorecard.
Error in SecurityScorecard search: 
[!] Missing API key for SecurityScorecard. 
An exception has occurred in SecurityScorecard scanning: 'SearchSecurityScorecard' object has no attribute 'get_ips'

[*] Performing BuiltWith scan...
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml
Error in BuiltWith search: 200, message='Attempt to decode JSON with unexpected mimetype: text/json; charset=utf-8', url='https://api.builtwith.com/v21/api.json?KEY=None&LOOKUP=hypertrends.com'

----- STDERR -----
2025-09-09 22:07:12,078 - api_endpoints - INFO - Starting API endpoint scan for hypertrends.com
2025-09-09 22:07:12,079 - api_endpoints - INFO - Detected schema for hypertrends.com: http
2025-09-09 22:07:12,079 - api_endpoints - INFO - Prepared 1834 endpoints to scan with concurrency 20
2025-09-09 22:07:12,096 - api_endpoints - INFO - API endpoint scan completed. Found 0 endpoints.


    │   └───vulnx
    │       ├───metasploit
			123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000:===== Metasploit Metadata =====
Tool      : metasploit
Target    : hypertrends.com
Status    : SUCCESS
Command   : N/A
Start Time: 2025-09-09T10:16:20.327588+00:00
End Time  : 2025-09-09T10:17:36.424827+00:00
Duration in seconds : 76.097239s
==========================

----- STDOUT -----
==== Metasploit Summary ====
Target   : hypertrends.com
Modules  : 26
Succeeded: 26
Failed   : 0

===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/http/blind_sql_query (port 443) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/http/blind_sql_query
Call trans opt: received. 2-19-98 13:24:18 REC:Loc

     Trace program: running

           wake up, Neo...
        the matrix has you
      follow the white rabbit.

          knock, knock, Neo.

                        (`.         ,-,
                        ` `.    ,;' /
                         `.  ,'/ .'
                          `. X /.'
                .-;--''--.._` ` (
              .'            /   `
             ,           ` '   Q '
             ,         ,   `._    \
          ,.|         '     `-.;_'
          :  . `  ;    `  ` --,.._;
           ' `    ,   )   .'
              `._ ,  '   /_
                 ; ,''-,;' ``-
                  ``-..__``--`

                             https://metasploit.com


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 443
RPORT => 443

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...


===== MODULE: auxiliary/gather/enum_dns (port 53) =====

> use auxiliary/gather/enum_dns

 ______________________________________________________________________________
|                                                                              |
|                   METASPLOIT CYBER MISSILE COMMAND V5                        |
|______________________________________________________________________________|
      \                                  /                      /
       \     .                          /                      /            x
        \                              /                      /
         \                            /          +           /
          \            +             /                      /
           *                        /                      /
                                   /      .               /
    X                             /                      /            X
                                 /                     ###
                                /                     # % #
                               /                       ###
                      .       /
     .                       /      .            *           .
                            /
                           *
                  +                       *

                                       ^
####      __     __     __          #######         __     __     __        ####
####    /    \ /    \ /    \      ###########     /    \ /    \ /    \      ####
################################################################################
################################################################################
# WAVE 5 ######## SCORE 31337 ################################## HIGH FFFFFFFF #
################################################################################
                                                           https://metasploit.com


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
[!] Unknown datastore option: RHOSTS.
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 53
RPORT => 53

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/ssh/libssh_auth_bypass (port 22) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/ssh/libssh_auth_bypass
# cowsay++
 ____________
< metasploit >
 ------------
       \   ,__,
        \  (oo)____
           (__)    )\
              ||--|| *


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project

[*] Using action Shell - view all 2 actions with the show actions command

> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 22
RPORT => 22

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/ftp/ftp_version (port 21) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/ftp/ftp_version

*Neutrino_Cannon*PrettyBeefy*PostalTime*binbash*deadastronauts*EvilBunnyWrote*L1T*Mail.ru*() { :;}; echo vulnerable*
*Team sorceror*ADACTF*BisonSquad*socialdistancing*LeukeTeamNaam*OWASP Moncton*Alegori*exit*Vampire Bunnies*APT593*
*QuePasaZombiesAndFriends*NetSecBG*coincoin*ShroomZ*Slow Coders*Scavenger Security*Bruh*NoTeamName*Terminal Cult*
*edspiner*BFG*MagentaHats*0x01DA*Kaczuszki*AlphaPwners*FILAHA*Raffaela*HackSurYvette*outout*HackSouth*Corax*yeeb0iz*
*SKUA*Cyber COBRA*flaghunters*0xCD*AI Generated*CSEC*p3nnm3d*IFS*CTF_Circle*InnotecLabs*baadf00d*BitSwitchers*0xnoobs*
*ItPwns - Intergalactic Team of PWNers*PCCsquared*fr334aks*runCMD*0x194*Kapital Krakens*ReadyPlayer1337*Team 443*
*H4CKSN0W*InfOUsec*CTF Community*DCZia*NiceWay*0xBlueSky*ME3*Tipi'Hack*Porg Pwn Platoon*Hackerty*hackstreetboys*
*ideaengine007*eggcellent*H4x*cw167*localhorst*Original Cyan Lonkero*Sad_Pandas*FalseFlag*OurHeartBleedsOrange*SBWASP*
*Cult of the Dead Turkey*doesthismatter*crayontheft*Cyber Mausoleum*scripterz*VetSec*norbot*Delta Squad Zero*Mukesh*
*x00-x00*BlackCat*ARESx*cxp*vaporsec*purplehax*RedTeam@MTU*UsalamaTeam*vitamink*RISC*forkbomb444*hownowbrowncow*
*etherknot*cheesebaguette*downgrade*FR!3ND5*badfirmware*Cut3Dr4g0n*dc615*nora*Polaris One*team*hail hydra*Takoyaki*
*Sudo Society*incognito-flash*TheScientists*Tea Party*Reapers of Pwnage*OldBoys*M0ul3Fr1t1B13r3*bearswithsaws*DC540*
*iMosuke*Infosec_zitro*CrackTheFlag*TheConquerors*Asur*4fun*Rogue-CTF*Cyber*TMHC*The_Pirhacks*btwIuseArch*MadDawgs*
*HInc*The Pighty Mangolins*CCSF_RamSec*x4n0n*x0rc3r3rs*emehacr*Ph4n70m_R34p3r*humziq*Preeminence*UMGC*ByteBrigade*
*TeamFastMark*Towson-Cyberkatz*meow*xrzhev*PA Hackers*Kuolema*Nakateam*L0g!c B0mb*NOVA-InfoSec*teamstyle*Panic*
*B0NG0R3*                                                                                    *Les Cadets Rouges*buf*
*Les Tontons Fl4gueurs*                                                                      *404 : Flag Not Found*
*' UNION SELECT 'password*      _________                __                                  *OCD247*Sparkle Pony* 
*burner_herz0g*                 \_   ___ \_____  _______/  |_ __ _________   ____            *Kill$hot*ConEmu*
*here_there_be_trolls*          /    \  \/\__  \ \____ \   __\  |  \_  __ \_/ __ \           *;echo"hacked"*
*r4t5_*6rung4nd4*NYUSEC*        \     \____/ __ \|  |_> >  | |  |  /|  | \/\  ___/           *karamel4e*
*IkastenIO*TWC*balkansec*        \______  (____  /   __/|__| |____/ |__|    \___  >          *cybersecurity.li*
*TofuEelRoll*Trash Pandas*              \/     \/|__|                           \/           *OneManArmy*cyb3r_w1z4rd5*
*Astra*Got Schwartz?*tmux*                  ___________.__                                   *AreYouStuck*Mr.Robot.0*
*\nls*Juicy white peach*                    \__    ___/|  |__   ____                         *EPITA Rennes*
*HackerKnights*                               |    |   |  |  \_/ __ \                        *guildOfGengar*Titans*
*Pentest Rangers*                             |    |   |   Y  \  ___/                        *The Libbyrators*
*placeholder name*bitup*                      |____|   |___|  /\___  >                       *JeffTadashi*Mikeal*
*UCASers*onotch*                                            \/     \/                        *ky_dong_day_song*
*NeNiNuMmOk*                              ___________.__                                     *JustForFun!*
*Maux de tête*LalaNG*                     \_   _____/|  | _____     ____                     *g3tsh3Lls0on*
*crr0tz*z3r0p0rn*clueless*                 |    __)  |  | \__  \   / ___\                    *Phở Đặc Biệt*Paradox*
*HackWara*                                 |     \   |  |__/ __ \_/ /_/  >                   *KaRIPux*inf0sec*
*Kugelschreibertester*                     \___  /   |____(____  /\___  /                    *bluehens*Antoine77*
*icemasters*                                   \/              \//_____/                     *genxy*TRADE_NAMES*
*Spartan's Ravens*                       _______________   _______________                   *BadByte*fontwang_tw*
*g0ldd1gg3rs*pappo*                     \_____  \   _  \  \_____  \   _  \                   *ghoti*
*Les CRACKS*c0dingRabbits*               /  ____/  /_\  \  /  ____/  /_\  \                  *LinuxRiders*   
*2Cr4Sh*RecycleBin*                     /       \  \_/   \/       \  \_/   \                 *Jalan Durian*
*ExploitStudio*                         \_______ \_____  /\_______ \_____  /                 *WPICSC*logaritm*
*Car RamRod*0x41414141*                         \/     \/         \/     \/                  *Orv1ll3*team-fm4dd*
*Björkson*FlyingCircus*                                                                      *PwnHub*H4X0R*Yanee*
*Securifera*hot cocoa*                                                                       *Et3rnal*PelarianCP*
*n00bytes*DNC&G*guildzero*dorko*tv*42*{EHF}*CarpeDien*Flamin-Go*BarryWhite*XUcyber*FernetInjection*DCcurity*
*Mars Explorer*ozen_cfw*Fat Boys*Simpatico*nzdjb*Isec-U.O*The Pomorians*T35H*H@wk33*JetJ*OrangeStar*Team Corgi*
*D0g3*0itch*OffRes*LegionOfRinf*UniWA*wgucoo*Pr0ph3t*L0ner*_n00bz*OSINT Punchers*Tinfoil Hats*Hava*Team Neu*
*Cyb3rDoctor*Techlock Inc*kinakomochi*DubbelDopper*bubbasnmp*w*Gh0st$*tyl3rsec*LUCKY_CLOVERS*ev4d3rx10-team*ir4n6*
*PEQUI_ctf*HKLBGD*L3o*5 bits short of a byte*UCM*ByteForc3*Death_Geass*Stryk3r*WooT*Raise The Black*CTErr0r*
*Individual*mikejam*Flag Predator*klandes*_no_Skids*SQ.*CyberOWL*Ironhearts*Kizzle*gauti*
*San Antonio College Cyber Rangers*sam.ninja*Akerbeltz*cheeseroyale*Ephyra*sard city*OrderingChaos*Pickle_Ricks*
*Hex2Text*defiant*hefter*Flaggermeister*Oxford Brookes University*OD1E*noob_noob*Ferris Wheel*Ficus*ONO*jameless*
*Log1c_b0mb*dr4k0t4*0th3rs*dcua*cccchhhh6819*Manzara's Magpies*pwn4lyfe*Droogy*Shrubhound Gang*ssociety*HackJWU*
*asdfghjkl*n00bi3*i-cube warriors*WhateverThrone*Salvat0re*Chadsec*0x1337deadbeef*StarchThingIDK*Tieto_alaviiva_turva*
*InspiV*RPCA Cyber Club*kurage0verfl0w*lammm*pelicans_for_freedom*switchteam*tim*departedcomputerchairs*cool_runnings*
*chads*SecureShell*EetIetsHekken*CyberSquad*P&K*Trident*RedSeer*SOMA*EVM*BUckys_Angels*OrangeJuice*DemDirtyUserz*
*OpenToAll*Born2Hack*Bigglesworth*NIS*10Monkeys1Keyboard*TNGCrew*Cla55N0tF0und*exploits33kr*root_rulzz*InfosecIITG*
*superusers*H@rdT0R3m3b3r*operators*NULL*stuxCTF*mHackresciallo*Eclipse*Gingabeast*Hamad*Immortals*arasan*MouseTrap*
*damn_sadboi*tadaaa*null2root*HowestCSP*fezfezf*LordVader*Fl@g_Hunt3rs*bluenet*P@Ge2mE*



       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 21
RPORT => 21

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/ftp/anonymous (port 21) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/ftp/anonymous
               .;lxO0KXXXK0Oxl:.
           ,o0WMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMKd,
        'xNMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMWx,
      :KMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMK:
    .KMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMWNNNWMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMX,
   lWMMMMMMMMMMMXd:..     ..;dKMMMMMMMMMMMMo
  xMMMMMMMMMMWd.               .oNMMMMMMMMMMk
 oMMMMMMMMMMx.                    dMMMMMMMMMMx
.WMMMMMMMMM:                       :MMMMMMMMMM,
xMMMMMMMMMo                         lMMMMMMMMMO
NMMMMMMMMW                    ,cccccoMMMMMMMMMWlccccc;
MMMMMMMMMX                     ;KMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMX:
NMMMMMMMMW.                      ;KMMMMMMMMMMMMMMX:
xMMMMMMMMMd                        ,0MMMMMMMMMMK;
.WMMMMMMMMMc                         'OMMMMMM0,
 lMMMMMMMMMMk.                         .kMMO'
  dMMMMMMMMMMWd'                         ..
   cWMMMMMMMMMMMNxc'.                ##########
    .0MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMWc            #+#    #+#
      ;0MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMo.          +:+
        .dNMMMMMMMMMMMMo          +#++:++#+
           'oOWMMMMMMMMo                +:+
               .,cdkO0K;        :+:    :+:                                
                                :::::::+:
                      Metasploit

       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 21
RPORT => 21

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/ftp/ftp_login (port 21) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/ftp/ftp_login

  Metasploit Park, System Security Interface
  Version 4.0.5, Alpha E
  Ready...
  > access security
  access: PERMISSION DENIED.
  > access security grid
  access: PERMISSION DENIED.
  > access main security grid
  access: PERMISSION DENIED....and...
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 21
RPORT => 21

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run
[*] 107.180.250.162:21    - 107.180.250.162:21 - Starting FTP login sweep
[*] hypertrends.com:21    - Error: 107.180.250.162: Metasploit::Framework::LoginScanner::Invalid Cred details can't be blank, Cred details can't be blank (Metasploit::Framework::LoginScanner::FTP)
[*] hypertrends.com:21    - Scanned 1 of 1 hosts (100% complete)
[*] Auxiliary module execution completed


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/ssh/ssh_version (port 22) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/ssh/ssh_version
  +-------------------------------------------------------+
  |  METASPLOIT by Rapid7                                 |
  +---------------------------+---------------------------+
  |      __________________   |                           |
  |  ==c(______(o(______(_()  | |""""""""""""|======[***  |
  |             )=\           | |  EXPLOIT   \            |
  |            // \\          | |_____________\_______    |
  |           //   \\         | |==[msf >]============\   |
  |          //     \\        | |______________________\  |
  |         // RECON \\       | \(@)(@)(@)(@)(@)(@)(@)/   |
  |        //         \\      |  *********************    |
  +---------------------------+---------------------------+
  |      o O o                |        \'\/\/\/'/         |
  |              o O          |         )======(          |
  |                 o         |       .'  LOOT  '.        |
  | |^^^^^^^^^^^^^^|l___      |      /    _||__   \       |
  | |    PAYLOAD     |""\___, |     /    (_||_     \      |
  | |________________|__|)__| |    |     __||_)     |     |
  | |(@)(@)"""**|(@)(@)**|(@) |    "       ||       "     |
  |  = = = = = = = = = = = =  |     '--------------'      |
  +---------------------------+---------------------------+


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 22
RPORT => 22

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/ssh/ssh_login (port 22) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/ssh/ssh_login
  +-------------------------------------------------------+
  |  METASPLOIT by Rapid7                                 |
  +---------------------------+---------------------------+
  |      __________________   |                           |
  |  ==c(______(o(______(_()  | |""""""""""""|======[***  |
  |             )=\           | |  EXPLOIT   \            |
  |            // \\          | |_____________\_______    |
  |           //   \\         | |==[msf >]============\   |
  |          //     \\        | |______________________\  |
  |         // RECON \\       | \(@)(@)(@)(@)(@)(@)(@)/   |
  |        //         \\      |  *********************    |
  +---------------------------+---------------------------+
  |      o O o                |        \'\/\/\/'/         |
  |              o O          |         )======(          |
  |                 o         |       .'  LOOT  '.        |
  | |^^^^^^^^^^^^^^|l___      |      /    _||__   \       |
  | |    PAYLOAD     |""\___, |     /    (_||_     \      |
  | |________________|__|)__| |    |     __||_)     |     |
  | |(@)(@)"""**|(@)(@)**|(@) |    "       ||       "     |
  |  = = = = = = = = = = = =  |     '--------------'      |
  +---------------------------+---------------------------+


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 22
RPORT => 22

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run
[*] 107.180.250.162:22 - Starting bruteforce
[*] Error: 107.180.250.162: Metasploit::Framework::LoginScanner::Invalid Cred details can't be blank, Cred details can't be blank (Metasploit::Framework::LoginScanner::SSH)
[*] Scanned 1 of 1 hosts (100% complete)
[*] Auxiliary module execution completed


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/http/http_version (port 80) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/http/http_version

      .:okOOOkdc'           'cdkOOOko:.
    .xOOOOOOOOOOOOc       cOOOOOOOOOOOOx.
   :OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOk,   ,kOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO:
  'OOOOOOOOOkkkkOOOOO: :OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO'
  oOOOOOOOO.MMMM.oOOOOoOOOOl.MMMM,OOOOOOOOo
  dOOOOOOOO.MMMMMM.cOOOOOc.MMMMMM,OOOOOOOOx
  lOOOOOOOO.MMMMMMMMM;d;MMMMMMMMM,OOOOOOOOl
  .OOOOOOOO.MMM.;MMMMMMMMMMM;MMMM,OOOOOOOO.
   cOOOOOOO.MMM.OOc.MMMMM'oOO.MMM,OOOOOOOc
    oOOOOOO.MMM.OOOO.MMM:OOOO.MMM,OOOOOOo
     lOOOOO.MMM.OOOO.MMM:OOOO.MMM,OOOOOl
      ;OOOO'MMM.OOOO.MMM:OOOO.MMM;OOOO;
       .dOOo'WM.OOOOocccxOOOO.MX'xOOd.
         ,kOl'M.OOOOOOOOOOOOO.M'dOk,
           :kk;.OOOOOOOOOOOOO.;Ok:
             ;kOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOk:
               ,xOOOOOOOOOOOx,
                 .lOOOOOOOl.
                    ,dOd,
                      .

       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 80
RPORT => 80

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/http/http_version (port 443) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/http/http_version

                 _---------.
             .' #######   ;."
  .---,.    ;@             @@`;   .---,..
." @@@@@'.,'@@            @@@@@',.'@@@@ ".
'-.@@@@@@@@@@@@@          @@@@@@@@@@@@@ @;
   `.@@@@@@@@@@@@        @@@@@@@@@@@@@@ .'
     "--'.@@@  -.@        @ ,'-   .'--"
          ".@' ; @       @ `.  ;'
            |@@@@ @@@     @    .
             ' @@@ @@   @@    ,
              `.@@@@    @@   .
                ',@@     @   ;           _____________
                 (   3 C    )     /|___ / Metasploit! \
                 ;@'. __*__,."    \|--- \_____________/
                  '(.,...."/


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 443
RPORT => 443

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/http/options (port 80) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/http/options

 ______________________________________________________________________________
|                                                                              |
|                   METASPLOIT CYBER MISSILE COMMAND V5                        |
|______________________________________________________________________________|
      \                                  /                      /
       \     .                          /                      /            x
        \                              /                      /
         \                            /          +           /
          \            +             /                      /
           *                        /                      /
                                   /      .               /
    X                             /                      /            X
                                 /                     ###
                                /                     # % #
                               /                       ###
                      .       /
     .                       /      .            *           .
                            /
                           *
                  +                       *

                                       ^
####      __     __     __          #######         __     __     __        ####
####    /    \ /    \ /    \      ###########     /    \ /    \ /    \      ####
################################################################################
################################################################################
# WAVE 5 ######## SCORE 31337 ################################## HIGH FFFFFFFF #
################################################################################
                                                           https://metasploit.com


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 80
RPORT => 80

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/http/options (port 443) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/http/options
IIIIII    dTb.dTb        _.---._
  II     4'  v  'B   .'"".'/|\`.""'.
  II     6.     .P  :  .' / | \ `.  :
  II     'T;. .;P'  '.'  /  |  \  `.'
  II      'T; ;P'    `. /   |   \ .'
IIIIII     'YvP'       `-.__|__.-'

I love shells --egypt


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 443
RPORT => 443

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/http/robots_txt (port 80) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/http/robots_txt
               .;lxO0KXXXK0Oxl:.
           ,o0WMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMKd,
        'xNMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMWx,
      :KMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMK:
    .KMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMWNNNWMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMX,
   lWMMMMMMMMMMMXd:..     ..;dKMMMMMMMMMMMMo
  xMMMMMMMMMMWd.               .oNMMMMMMMMMMk
 oMMMMMMMMMMx.                    dMMMMMMMMMMx
.WMMMMMMMMM:                       :MMMMMMMMMM,
xMMMMMMMMMo                         lMMMMMMMMMO
NMMMMMMMMW                    ,cccccoMMMMMMMMMWlccccc;
MMMMMMMMMX                     ;KMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMX:
NMMMMMMMMW.                      ;KMMMMMMMMMMMMMMX:
xMMMMMMMMMd                        ,0MMMMMMMMMMK;
.WMMMMMMMMMc                         'OMMMMMM0,
 lMMMMMMMMMMk.                         .kMMO'
  dMMMMMMMMMMWd'                         ..
   cWMMMMMMMMMMMNxc'.                ##########
    .0MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMWc            #+#    #+#
      ;0MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMo.          +:+
        .dNMMMMMMMMMMMMo          +#++:++#+
           'oOWMMMMMMMMo                +:+
               .,cdkO0K;        :+:    :+:                                
                                :::::::+:
                      Metasploit

       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 80
RPORT => 80

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/http/robots_txt (port 443) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/http/robots_txt

  Metasploit Park, System Security Interface
  Version 4.0.5, Alpha E
  Ready...
  > access security
  access: PERMISSION DENIED.
  > access security grid
  access: PERMISSION DENIED.
  > access main security grid
  access: PERMISSION DENIED....and...
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 443
RPORT => 443

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/http/title (port 80) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/http/title

*Neutrino_Cannon*PrettyBeefy*PostalTime*binbash*deadastronauts*EvilBunnyWrote*L1T*Mail.ru*() { :;}; echo vulnerable*
*Team sorceror*ADACTF*BisonSquad*socialdistancing*LeukeTeamNaam*OWASP Moncton*Alegori*exit*Vampire Bunnies*APT593*
*QuePasaZombiesAndFriends*NetSecBG*coincoin*ShroomZ*Slow Coders*Scavenger Security*Bruh*NoTeamName*Terminal Cult*
*edspiner*BFG*MagentaHats*0x01DA*Kaczuszki*AlphaPwners*FILAHA*Raffaela*HackSurYvette*outout*HackSouth*Corax*yeeb0iz*
*SKUA*Cyber COBRA*flaghunters*0xCD*AI Generated*CSEC*p3nnm3d*IFS*CTF_Circle*InnotecLabs*baadf00d*BitSwitchers*0xnoobs*
*ItPwns - Intergalactic Team of PWNers*PCCsquared*fr334aks*runCMD*0x194*Kapital Krakens*ReadyPlayer1337*Team 443*
*H4CKSN0W*InfOUsec*CTF Community*DCZia*NiceWay*0xBlueSky*ME3*Tipi'Hack*Porg Pwn Platoon*Hackerty*hackstreetboys*
*ideaengine007*eggcellent*H4x*cw167*localhorst*Original Cyan Lonkero*Sad_Pandas*FalseFlag*OurHeartBleedsOrange*SBWASP*
*Cult of the Dead Turkey*doesthismatter*crayontheft*Cyber Mausoleum*scripterz*VetSec*norbot*Delta Squad Zero*Mukesh*
*x00-x00*BlackCat*ARESx*cxp*vaporsec*purplehax*RedTeam@MTU*UsalamaTeam*vitamink*RISC*forkbomb444*hownowbrowncow*
*etherknot*cheesebaguette*downgrade*FR!3ND5*badfirmware*Cut3Dr4g0n*dc615*nora*Polaris One*team*hail hydra*Takoyaki*
*Sudo Society*incognito-flash*TheScientists*Tea Party*Reapers of Pwnage*OldBoys*M0ul3Fr1t1B13r3*bearswithsaws*DC540*
*iMosuke*Infosec_zitro*CrackTheFlag*TheConquerors*Asur*4fun*Rogue-CTF*Cyber*TMHC*The_Pirhacks*btwIuseArch*MadDawgs*
*HInc*The Pighty Mangolins*CCSF_RamSec*x4n0n*x0rc3r3rs*emehacr*Ph4n70m_R34p3r*humziq*Preeminence*UMGC*ByteBrigade*
*TeamFastMark*Towson-Cyberkatz*meow*xrzhev*PA Hackers*Kuolema*Nakateam*L0g!c B0mb*NOVA-InfoSec*teamstyle*Panic*
*B0NG0R3*                                                                                    *Les Cadets Rouges*buf*
*Les Tontons Fl4gueurs*                                                                      *404 : Flag Not Found*
*' UNION SELECT 'password*      _________                __                                  *OCD247*Sparkle Pony* 
*burner_herz0g*                 \_   ___ \_____  _______/  |_ __ _________   ____            *Kill$hot*ConEmu*
*here_there_be_trolls*          /    \  \/\__  \ \____ \   __\  |  \_  __ \_/ __ \           *;echo"hacked"*
*r4t5_*6rung4nd4*NYUSEC*        \     \____/ __ \|  |_> >  | |  |  /|  | \/\  ___/           *karamel4e*
*IkastenIO*TWC*balkansec*        \______  (____  /   __/|__| |____/ |__|    \___  >          *cybersecurity.li*
*TofuEelRoll*Trash Pandas*              \/     \/|__|                           \/           *OneManArmy*cyb3r_w1z4rd5*
*Astra*Got Schwartz?*tmux*                  ___________.__                                   *AreYouStuck*Mr.Robot.0*
*\nls*Juicy white peach*                    \__    ___/|  |__   ____                         *EPITA Rennes*
*HackerKnights*                               |    |   |  |  \_/ __ \                        *guildOfGengar*Titans*
*Pentest Rangers*                             |    |   |   Y  \  ___/                        *The Libbyrators*
*placeholder name*bitup*                      |____|   |___|  /\___  >                       *JeffTadashi*Mikeal*
*UCASers*onotch*                                            \/     \/                        *ky_dong_day_song*
*NeNiNuMmOk*                              ___________.__                                     *JustForFun!*
*Maux de tête*LalaNG*                     \_   _____/|  | _____     ____                     *g3tsh3Lls0on*
*crr0tz*z3r0p0rn*clueless*                 |    __)  |  | \__  \   / ___\                    *Phở Đặc Biệt*Paradox*
*HackWara*                                 |     \   |  |__/ __ \_/ /_/  >                   *KaRIPux*inf0sec*
*Kugelschreibertester*                     \___  /   |____(____  /\___  /                    *bluehens*Antoine77*
*icemasters*                                   \/              \//_____/                     *genxy*TRADE_NAMES*
*Spartan's Ravens*                       _______________   _______________                   *BadByte*fontwang_tw*
*g0ldd1gg3rs*pappo*                     \_____  \   _  \  \_____  \   _  \                   *ghoti*
*Les CRACKS*c0dingRabbits*               /  ____/  /_\  \  /  ____/  /_\  \                  *LinuxRiders*   
*2Cr4Sh*RecycleBin*                     /       \  \_/   \/       \  \_/   \                 *Jalan Durian*
*ExploitStudio*                         \_______ \_____  /\_______ \_____  /                 *WPICSC*logaritm*
*Car RamRod*0x41414141*                         \/     \/         \/     \/                  *Orv1ll3*team-fm4dd*
*Björkson*FlyingCircus*                                                                      *PwnHub*H4X0R*Yanee*
*Securifera*hot cocoa*                                                                       *Et3rnal*PelarianCP*
*n00bytes*DNC&G*guildzero*dorko*tv*42*{EHF}*CarpeDien*Flamin-Go*BarryWhite*XUcyber*FernetInjection*DCcurity*
*Mars Explorer*ozen_cfw*Fat Boys*Simpatico*nzdjb*Isec-U.O*The Pomorians*T35H*H@wk33*JetJ*OrangeStar*Team Corgi*
*D0g3*0itch*OffRes*LegionOfRinf*UniWA*wgucoo*Pr0ph3t*L0ner*_n00bz*OSINT Punchers*Tinfoil Hats*Hava*Team Neu*
*Cyb3rDoctor*Techlock Inc*kinakomochi*DubbelDopper*bubbasnmp*w*Gh0st$*tyl3rsec*LUCKY_CLOVERS*ev4d3rx10-team*ir4n6*
*PEQUI_ctf*HKLBGD*L3o*5 bits short of a byte*UCM*ByteForc3*Death_Geass*Stryk3r*WooT*Raise The Black*CTErr0r*
*Individual*mikejam*Flag Predator*klandes*_no_Skids*SQ.*CyberOWL*Ironhearts*Kizzle*gauti*
*San Antonio College Cyber Rangers*sam.ninja*Akerbeltz*cheeseroyale*Ephyra*sard city*OrderingChaos*Pickle_Ricks*
*Hex2Text*defiant*hefter*Flaggermeister*Oxford Brookes University*OD1E*noob_noob*Ferris Wheel*Ficus*ONO*jameless*
*Log1c_b0mb*dr4k0t4*0th3rs*dcua*cccchhhh6819*Manzara's Magpies*pwn4lyfe*Droogy*Shrubhound Gang*ssociety*HackJWU*
*asdfghjkl*n00bi3*i-cube warriors*WhateverThrone*Salvat0re*Chadsec*0x1337deadbeef*StarchThingIDK*Tieto_alaviiva_turva*
*InspiV*RPCA Cyber Club*kurage0verfl0w*lammm*pelicans_for_freedom*switchteam*tim*departedcomputerchairs*cool_runnings*
*chads*SecureShell*EetIetsHekken*CyberSquad*P&K*Trident*RedSeer*SOMA*EVM*BUckys_Angels*OrangeJuice*DemDirtyUserz*
*OpenToAll*Born2Hack*Bigglesworth*NIS*10Monkeys1Keyboard*TNGCrew*Cla55N0tF0und*exploits33kr*root_rulzz*InfosecIITG*
*superusers*H@rdT0R3m3b3r*operators*NULL*stuxCTF*mHackresciallo*Eclipse*Gingabeast*Hamad*Immortals*arasan*MouseTrap*
*damn_sadboi*tadaaa*null2root*HowestCSP*fezfezf*LordVader*Fl@g_Hunt3rs*bluenet*P@Ge2mE*



       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 80
RPORT => 80

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run
[+] [107.180.250.162:80] [C:301] [R:https://hypertrends.com/] [S:nginx] 301 Moved Permanently
[*] Scanned 1 of 1 hosts (100% complete)
[*] Auxiliary module execution completed


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/http/title (port 443) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/http/title
IIIIII    dTb.dTb        _.---._
  II     4'  v  'B   .'"".'/|\`.""'.
  II     6.     .P  :  .' / | \ `.  :
  II     'T;. .;P'  '.'  /  |  \  `.'
  II      'T; ;P'    `. /   |   \ .'
IIIIII     'YvP'       `-.__|__.-'

I love shells --egypt


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 443
RPORT => 443

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run
[+] [107.180.250.162:443] [C:400] [R:] [S:nginx] 400 The plain HTTP request was sent to HTTPS port
[*] Scanned 1 of 1 hosts (100% complete)
[*] Auxiliary module execution completed


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/http/apache_options (port 80) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/http/apache_options

Unable to handle kernel NULL pointer dereference at virtual address 0xd34db33f
EFLAGS: 00010046
eax: 00000001 ebx: f77c8c00 ecx: 00000000 edx: f77f0001
esi: 803bf014 edi: 8023c755 ebp: 80237f84 esp: 80237f60
ds: 0018   es: 0018  ss: 0018
Process Swapper (Pid: 0, process nr: 0, stackpage=80377000)


Stack: 90909090990909090990909090
       90909090990909090990909090
       90909090.90909090.90909090
       90909090.90909090.90909090
       90909090.90909090.09090900
       90909090.90909090.09090900
       ..........................
       cccccccccccccccccccccccccc
       cccccccccccccccccccccccccc
       ccccccccc.................
       cccccccccccccccccccccccccc
       cccccccccccccccccccccccccc
       .................ccccccccc
       cccccccccccccccccccccccccc
       cccccccccccccccccccccccccc
       ..........................
       ffffffffffffffffffffffffff
       ffffffff..................
       ffffffffffffffffffffffffff
       ffffffff..................
       ffffffff..................
       ffffffff..................


Code: 00 00 00 00 M3 T4 SP L0 1T FR 4M 3W OR K! V3 R5 I0 N5 00 00 00 00
Aiee, Killing Interrupt handler
Kernel panic: Attempted to kill the idle task!
In swapper task - not syncing


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


Matching Modules
================

   #  Name                                        Disclosure Date  Rank    Check  Description
   -  ----                                        ---------------  ----    -----  -----------
   0  auxiliary/scanner/http/apache_optionsbleed  2017-09-18       normal  No     Apache Optionsbleed Scanner


Interact with a module by name or index. For example info 0, use 0 or use auxiliary/scanner/http/apache_optionsbleed

[*] Using auxiliary/scanner/http/apache_optionsbleed

> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 80
RPORT => 80

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run
[*] Scanned 1 of 1 hosts (100% complete)
[*] Auxiliary module execution completed


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/http/apache_options (port 443) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/http/apache_options

                 _---------.
             .' #######   ;."
  .---,.    ;@             @@`;   .---,..
." @@@@@'.,'@@            @@@@@',.'@@@@ ".
'-.@@@@@@@@@@@@@          @@@@@@@@@@@@@ @;
   `.@@@@@@@@@@@@        @@@@@@@@@@@@@@ .'
     "--'.@@@  -.@        @ ,'-   .'--"
          ".@' ; @       @ `.  ;'
            |@@@@ @@@     @    .
             ' @@@ @@   @@    ,
              `.@@@@    @@   .
                ',@@     @   ;           _____________
                 (   3 C    )     /|___ / Metasploit! \
                 ;@'. __*__,."    \|--- \_____________/
                  '(.,...."/


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


Matching Modules
================

   #  Name                                        Disclosure Date  Rank    Check  Description
   -  ----                                        ---------------  ----    -----  -----------
   0  auxiliary/scanner/http/apache_optionsbleed  2017-09-18       normal  No     Apache Optionsbleed Scanner


Interact with a module by name or index. For example info 0, use 0 or use auxiliary/scanner/http/apache_optionsbleed

[*] Using auxiliary/scanner/http/apache_optionsbleed

> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 443
RPORT => 443

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/http/dir_listing (port 80) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/http/dir_listing

  Metasploit Park, System Security Interface
  Version 4.0.5, Alpha E
  Ready...
  > access security
  access: PERMISSION DENIED.
  > access security grid
  access: PERMISSION DENIED.
  > access main security grid
  access: PERMISSION DENIED....and...
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 80
RPORT => 80

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/http/dir_listing (port 443) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/http/dir_listing

MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM
MMMMMMMMMMM                MMMMMMMMMM
MMMN$                           vMMMM
MMMNl  MMMMM             MMMMM  JMMMM
MMMNl  MMMMMMMN       NMMMMMMM  JMMMM
MMMNl  MMMMMMMMMNmmmNMMMMMMMMM  JMMMM
MMMNI  MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM  jMMMM
MMMNI  MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM  jMMMM
MMMNI  MMMMM   MMMMMMM   MMMMM  jMMMM
MMMNI  MMMMM   MMMMMMM   MMMMM  jMMMM
MMMNI  MMMNM   MMMMMMM   MMMMM  jMMMM
MMMNI  WMMMM   MMMMMMM   MMMM#  JMMMM
MMMMR  ?MMNM             MMMMM .dMMMM
MMMMNm `?MMM             MMMM` dMMMMM
MMMMMMN  ?MM             MM?  NMMMMMN
MMMMMMMMNe                 JMMMMMNMMM
MMMMMMMMMMNm,            eMMMMMNMMNMM
MMMMNNMNMMMMMNx        MMMMMMNMMNMMNM
MMMMMMMMNMMNMMMMm+..+MMNMMNMNMMNMMNMM
        https://metasploit.com


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 443
RPORT => 443

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/http/drupal_views_user_enum (port 80) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/http/drupal_views_user_enum
 ______________________________________
/ it looks like you're trying to run a \
\ module                               /
 --------------------------------------
 \
  \
     __
    /  \
    |  |
    @  @
    |  |
    || |/
    || ||
    |\_/|
    \___/


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 80
RPORT => 80

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/http/drupal_views_user_enum (port 443) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/http/drupal_views_user_enum
 _                                                    _
/ \    /\         __                         _   __  /_/ __
| |\  / | _____   \ \           ___   _____ | | /  \ _   \ \
| | \/| | | ___\ |- -|   /\    / __\ | -__/ | || | || | |- -|
|_|   | | | _|__  | |_  / -\ __\ \   | |    | | \__/| |  | |_
      |/  |____/  \___\/ /\ \\___/   \/     \__|    |_\  \___\


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 443
RPORT => 443

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/http/wordpress_login_enum (port 80) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/http/wordpress_login_enum
                                   ___          ____
                               ,-""   `.      < HONK >
                             ,'  _   e )`-._ /  ----
                            /  ,' `-._<.===-'
                           /  /
                          /  ;
              _          /   ;
 (`._    _.-"" ""--..__,'    |
 <_  `-""                     \
  <`-                          :
   (__   <__.                  ;
     `-.   '-.__.      _.'    /
        \      `-.__,-'    _,'
         `._    ,    /__,-'
            ""._\__,'< <____
                 | |  `----.`.
                 | |        \ `.
                 ; |___      \-``
                 \   --<
                  `.`.<
                    `-'



       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 80
RPORT => 80

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/http/wordpress_login_enum (port 443) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/http/wordpress_login_enum
  +-------------------------------------------------------+
  |  METASPLOIT by Rapid7                                 |
  +---------------------------+---------------------------+
  |      __________________   |                           |
  |  ==c(______(o(______(_()  | |""""""""""""|======[***  |
  |             )=\           | |  EXPLOIT   \            |
  |            // \\          | |_____________\_______    |
  |           //   \\         | |==[msf >]============\   |
  |          //     \\        | |______________________\  |
  |         // RECON \\       | \(@)(@)(@)(@)(@)(@)(@)/   |
  |        //         \\      |  *********************    |
  +---------------------------+---------------------------+
  |      o O o                |        \'\/\/\/'/         |
  |              o O          |         )======(          |
  |                 o         |       .'  LOOT  '.        |
  | |^^^^^^^^^^^^^^|l___      |      /    _||__   \       |
  | |    PAYLOAD     |""\___, |     /    (_||_     \      |
  | |________________|__|)__| |    |     __||_)     |     |
  | |(@)(@)"""**|(@)(@)**|(@) |    "       ||       "     |
  |  = = = = = = = = = = = =  |     '--------------'      |
  +---------------------------+---------------------------+


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 443
RPORT => 443

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/http/wordpress_user_enum (port 80) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/http/wordpress_user_enum
 ______________________________________
/ it looks like you're trying to run a \
\ module                               /
 --------------------------------------
 \
  \
     __
    /  \
    |  |
    @  @
    |  |
    || |/
    || ||
    |\_/|
    \___/


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project

[-] No results from search
[-] Failed to load module: auxiliary/scanner/http/wordpress_user_enum

> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 80
RPORT => 80

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run
[-] Unknown command: run. Run the help command for more details.


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/http/wordpress_user_enum (port 443) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/http/wordpress_user_enum

                 _---------.
             .' #######   ;."
  .---,.    ;@             @@`;   .---,..
." @@@@@'.,'@@            @@@@@',.'@@@@ ".
'-.@@@@@@@@@@@@@          @@@@@@@@@@@@@ @;
   `.@@@@@@@@@@@@        @@@@@@@@@@@@@@ .'
     "--'.@@@  -.@        @ ,'-   .'--"
          ".@' ; @       @ `.  ;'
            |@@@@ @@@     @    .
             ' @@@ @@   @@    ,
              `.@@@@    @@   .
                ',@@     @   ;           _____________
                 (   3 C    )     /|___ / Metasploit! \
                 ;@'. __*__,."    \|--- \_____________/
                  '(.,...."/


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project

[-] No results from search
[-] Failed to load module: auxiliary/scanner/http/wordpress_user_enum

> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 443
RPORT => 443

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run
[-] Unknown command: run. Run the help command for more details.


----- STDERR -----


    │       ├───nikto
			123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000:===== Nikto Metadata =====
Tool      : nikto
Target    : hypertrends.com
Status    : PARTIAL_SUCCESS
Command   : nikto -Tuning bde -timeout 120 -evasion 1 -nointeractive -ask no -Pause 2 -host hypertrends.com
Timestamp : 2025-09-01T10:20:56.322339+00:00
==========================

----- STDOUT -----
-***** Pausing 2 second(s) per request
- Nikto v2.5.0
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
+ Target IP:          107.180.250.162
+ Target Hostname:    hypertrends.com
+ Target Port:        80
+ Using Encoding:     Random URI encoding (non-UTF8)
+ Start Time:         2025-09-01 15:42:46 (GMT5.5)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
+ Server: nginx
+ /: The anti-clickjacking X-Frame-Options header is not present. See: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/X-Frame-Options
+ /: The X-Content-Type-Options header is not set. This could allow the user agent to render the content of the site in a different fashion to the MIME type. See: https://www.netsparker.com/web-vulnerability-scanner/vulnerabilities/missing-content-type-header/
+ No CGI Directories found (use '-C all' to force check all possible dirs)
+ Scan terminated: 8 error(s) and 2 item(s) reported on remote host
+ End Time:           2025-09-01 15:50:56 (GMT5.5) (490 seconds)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
+ 1 host(s) tested

----- STDERR -----
+ ERROR: Error limit (20) reached for host, giving up. Last error: 


    │       ├───nmap
			123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000:===== Nmap Metadata =====
Tool      : nmap
Target    : hypertrends.com
Status    : SUCCESS
Command   : nmap --script=vuln hypertrends.com
Timestamp : 2025-09-01T07:55:02.295249+00:00
==========================

----- STDOUT -----
Starting Nmap 7.97 ( https://nmap.org ) at 2025-09-01 12:55 +0530
Nmap scan report for hypertrends.com (107.180.250.162)
Host is up (0.26s latency).
rDNS record for 107.180.250.162: dp-66d1e22ba7.dreamhostps.com
Not shown: 994 filtered tcp ports (no-response)
PORT      STATE  SERVICE
22/tcp    open   ssh
80/tcp    open   http
|_http-dombased-xss: Couldn't find any DOM based XSS.
|_http-csrf: Couldn't find any CSRF vulnerabilities.
|_http-stored-xss: Couldn't find any stored XSS vulnerabilities.
81/tcp    closed hosts2-ns
443/tcp   open   https
| http-wordpress-users: 
| Username found: amarwadi
| Username found: artoon
| Username found: adityaht
| Username found: kaushalht
| Username found: abhishek-mishra
| Username found: ayushiht
|_Search stopped at ID #25. Increase the upper limit if necessary with 'http-wordpress-users.limit'
| http-enum: 
|   /wp-login.php: Possible admin folder
|   /wp-json: Possible admin folder
|   /readme.html: Wordpress version: 2 
|   /wp-includes/images/rss.png: Wordpress version 2.2 found.
|   /wp-includes/js/jquery/suggest.js: Wordpress version 2.5 found.
|   /wp-includes/images/blank.gif: Wordpress version 2.6 found.
|   /wp-includes/js/comment-reply.js: Wordpress version 2.7 found.
|   /wp-login.php: Wordpress login page.
|   /wp-admin/upgrade.php: Wordpress login page.
|_  /readme.html: Interesting, a readme.
|_http-csrf: Couldn't find any CSRF vulnerabilities.
|_http-dombased-xss: Couldn't find any DOM based XSS.
|_http-stored-xss: Couldn't find any stored XSS vulnerabilities.
60020/tcp closed unknown
60443/tcp closed unknown

Nmap done: 1 IP address (1 host up) scanned in 1748.25 seconds

----- STDERR -----


    │       └───nuclei
			123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000.646BcdAd:===== Nuclei Metadata =====
Tool      : nuclei
Target    : hypertrends.com
Status    : SUCCESS
Command   : nuclei -tags wordpress -j -rl 30 -silent -u hypertrends.com
Start Time: 2025-09-09T10:20:35.730358+00:00
End Time  : 2025-09-09T10:23:09.110735+00:00
Duration in seconds : 153.380377s
==========================

----- STDOUT -----
{"template":"http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/advanced-custom-fields.yaml","template-url":"https://cloud.projectdiscovery.io/public/wordpress-advanced-custom-fields","template-id":"wordpress-advanced-custom-fields","template-path":"/Users/ayushi/nuclei-templates/http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/advanced-custom-fields.yaml","info":{"name":"Advanced Custom Fields (ACF®) Detection","author":["ricardomaia"],"tags":["tech","wordpress","wp-plugin","top-100","top-200"],"reference":["https://wordpress.org/plugins/advanced-custom-fields/"],"severity":"info","metadata":{"plugin_namespace":"advanced-custom-fields","wpscan":"https://wpscan.com/plugin/advanced-custom-fields"}},"extractor-name":"detected_version","type":"http","host":"hypertrends.com","port":"443","scheme":"https","url":"https://hypertrends.com","matched-at":"https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/advanced-custom-fields/readme.txt","extracted-results":["6.5.0"],"request":"GET /wp-content/plugins/advanced-custom-fields/readme.txt HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: hypertrends.com\r\nUser-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Fedora; Linux x86_64; rv:126.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/126.0\r\nAccept: */*\r\nAccept-Language: en\r\nAccept-Encoding: gzip\r\n\r\n","response":"HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r\nConnection: close\r\nTransfer-Encoding: chunked\r\nContent-Security-Policy: default-src * 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval' data: blob:;\r\nContent-Type: text/plain\r\nDate: Tue, 09 Sep 2025 10:21:29 GMT\r\nEtag: W/\"689d9324-8609\"\r\nLast-Modified: Thu, 14 Aug 2025 07:41:24 GMT\r\nReferrer-Policy: no-referrer-when-downgrade\r\nServer: nginx\r\nStrict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000;\r\nVary: Accept-Encoding\r\nX-Content-Type-Options: nosniff\r\nX-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN\r\nX-Rocket-Nginx-Serving-Static: MISS\r\nX-Xss-Protection: 1; mode=block\r\n\r\n=== Advanced Custom Fields (ACF®) ===\nContributors: deliciousbrains, wpengine, elliotcondon, mattshaw, lgladdy, antpb, johnstonphilip, dalewilliams, polevaultweb\nTags: acf, fields, custom fields, meta, repeater\nRequires at least: 6.0\nTested up to: 6.8.2\nRequires PHP: 7.4\nStable tag: 6.5.0\nLicense: GPLv2 or later\nLicense URI: https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html\n\nACF helps customize WordPress with powerful, professional and intuitive fields. Proudly powering over 2 million sites, WordPress developers love ACF.\n\n== Description ==\n\nAdvanced Custom Fields (ACF®) turns WordPress sites into a fully-fledged content management system by giving you all the tools to do more with your data.\n\nUse the ACF plugin to take full control of your WordPress edit screens, custom field data, and more.\n\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9C6_roqghZQ\u0026rel=0\n\n**Add fields on demand.**\nThe ACF field builder allows you to quickly and easily add fields to WP edit screens with only the click of a few buttons! Whether it's something simple like adding an “author” field to a book review post, or something more complex like the structured data needs of an ecommerce site or marketplace, ACF makes adding fields to your content model easy.\n\n**Add them anywhere.**\nFields can be added all over WordPress including posts, pages, users, taxonomy terms, media, comments and even custom options pages! It couldn't be simpler to bring structure to the WordPress content creation experience.\n\n**Show them everywhere.**\nLoad and display your custom field values in any theme template file with our hassle-free, developer friendly functions! Whether you need to display a single value or generate content based on a more complex query, the out-of-the-box functions of ACF make templating a dream for developers of all levels of experience.\n\n**Any Content, Fast.**\nTurning WordPress into a true content management system is not just about custom fields. Creating new custom post types and taxonomies is an essential part of building custom WordPress sites. Registering post types and taxonomies is now possible right in the ACF UI, speeding up the content modeling workflow without the need to touch code or use another plugin.\n\n**Simply beautiful and intentionally accessible.**\nFor content creators and those tasked with data entry, the field user experience is as intuitive as they could desire while fitting neatly into the native WordPress experience. Accessibility standards are regularly reviewed and applied, ensuring ACF is able to empower as close to anyone as possible.\n\n**Documentation and developer guides.**\nOver 10 plus years of vibrant community contribution alongside an ongoing commitment to clear documentation means that you'll be able to find the guidance you need to build what you want.\n\n= Features =\n* Simple \u0026 Intuitive\n* Powerful Functions\n* Over 30 Field Types\n* Extensive Documentation\n* Millions of Users\n\n= Links =\n* [Website](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/?utm_source=wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=free%20plugin%20listing\u0026utm_campaign=ACF%20Website)\n* [Documentation](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/resources/?utm_source=wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=free%20plugin%20listing\u0026utm_campaign=ACF%20Website)\n* [Support](https://support.advancedcustomfields.com)\n* [ACF PRO](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/pro/?utm_source=wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=free%20plugin%20listing\u0026utm_campaign=ACF%20Pro%20Upgrade)\n\n= PRO =\nThe Advanced Custom Fields plugin is also available in a professional version which includes more fields, more functionality, and more flexibility. The ACF PRO plugin features:\n\n* The [Repeater Field](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/resources/repeater/?utm_source=wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=free%20plugin%20listing\u0026utm_campaign=ACF%20Pro%20Upgrade) allows you to create a set of sub fields which can be repeated again, and again, and again.\n* [ACF Blocks](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/resources/blocks/?utm_source=wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=free%20plugin%20listing\u0026utm_campaign=ACF%20Pro%20Upgrade), a powerful PHP-based framework for developing custom block types for the WordPress Block Editor (aka Gutenberg).\n* Define, create, and manage content with the [Flexible Content Field](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/resources/flexible-content/?utm_source=wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=free%20plugin%20listing\u0026utm_campaign=ACF%20Pro%20Upgrade), which provides for multiple layout and sub field options.\n* Use the [Options Page](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/resources/options-page/?utm_source=wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=free%20plugin%20listing\u0026utm_campaign=ACF%20Pro%20Upgrade) feature to add custom admin pages to edit ACF fields.\n* Build fully customisable image galleries with the [Gallery Field](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/resources/gallery/?utm_source=wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=free%20plugin%20listing\u0026utm_campaign=ACF%20Pro%20Upgrade).\n* Unlock a more efficient workflow for managing field settings by reusing existing fields and field groups on demand with the [Clone Field](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/resources/clone/?utm_source=wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=free%20plugin%20listing\u0026utm_campaign=ACF%20Pro%20Upgrade).\n\n[Upgrade to ACF PRO](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/pro/?utm_source=wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=free%20plugin%20listing\u0026utm_campaign=ACF%20Pro%20Upgrade)\n\n== Installation ==\n\nFrom your WordPress dashboard\n\n1. **Visit** Plugins \u003e Add New\n2. **Search** for \"Advanced Custom Fields\" or “ACF”\n3. **Install and Activate** Advanced Custom Fields from your Plugins page\n4. **Click** on the new menu item \"ACF\" and create your first custom field group, or register a custom post type or taxonomy.\n5. **Read** the documentation to [get started](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/resources/getting-started-with-acf/?utm_source=wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=free%20plugin%20listing\u0026utm_campaign=ACF%20Website)\n\n\n== Frequently Asked Questions ==\n\n= What kind of support do you provide? =\n\n**Support Forums.** Our ACF Community Forums provide a great resource for searching and finding previously answered and asked support questions. You may create a new thread on these forums, however, it is not guaranteed that you will receive an answer from our support team. This is more of an area for ACF developers to talk to one another, post ideas, plugins and provide basic help. [View the Support Forum](https://support.advancedcustomfields.com/)\n\n\n== Screenshots ==\n\n1. Simple \u0026 Intuitive\n\n2. Made for Developers\n\n3. All About Fields\n\n4. Registering Custom Post Types\n\n5. Registering Taxonomies\n\n\n== Changelog ==\n\n= 6.5.0 =\n*Release Date 11th August 2025*\n\n* New - Flexible Content layouts can now be renamed in the post editor, giving content editors better clarity when managing layouts\n* New - Flexible Content layouts can now be disabled, preventing them from rendering on the frontend without needing to delete their data\n* New - Flexible Content layouts can now be collapsed and expanded in bulk for faster content editing\n* New - Editing a Flexible Content layout now highlights the layout being edited, making it easier to identify\n* New - The Date and Date Time Picker fields can now be configured to default to the current date\n* Fix - Custom Icon Picker tabs now work correctly when used inside an ACF Block\n* Fix - Duplicating a Field Group no longer causes a fatal error when using Russian translations\n* Fix - ACF classes no longer use dynamic class properties, improving compatibility with PHP 8.2+\n* Fix - ACF PRO no longer shows an update available immediately after updating to the latest version\n* Fix - Field group metabox collapse and expand buttons are no longer misaligned in the post editor\n* Fix - The ACF Site Health section no longer causes a PHP warning when field group location rules are incomplete\n* Security - HTML is now escaped from field validation errors and tooltips\n\n= 6.4.3 =\n*Release Date 22nd July 2025*\n\n* Security - Unsafe HTML in field group labels is now correctly escaped for conditionally loaded field groups, resolving a JS execution vulnerability in the classic editor\n* Security - HTML is now escaped from field group labels when output in the ACF admin\n* Security - Bidirectional and Conditional Logic Select2 elements no longer render HTML in field labels or post titles\n* Security - The `acf.escHtml` function now uses the third party DOMPurify library to ensure all unsafe HTML is removed. A new `esc_html_dompurify_config` JS filter can be used to modify the default behaviour\n* Security - Post titles are now correctly escaped whenever they are output by ACF code. Thanks to Shogo Kumamaru of LAC Co., Ltd. for the responsible disclosure\n* Security - An admin notice is now displayed when version 3 of the Select2 library is used, as it has now been deprecated in favor of version 4\n\n= 6.4.2 =\n*Release Date 20th May 2025*\n\n* New - In ACF PRO, fields can now be added to WooCommerce Subscriptions when using HPOS\n* Security - Changing a field type no longer enables the \"Allow Access to Value in Editor UI\" setting\n* Fix - Paginated Repeater fields no longer save duplicate values when saving to a WooCommerce Order with HPOS disabled\n* Fix - Blocks registered via acf_register_block_type() with a `parent` value of `null` no longer fail to register\n\n= 6.4.1 =\n*Release Date 8th May 2025*\n\n* New - Select fields can now be configured to allow creating new options when editing the field's value (requires the \"Stylized UI\" and \"Multiple\" field settings to be enabled)\n* Enhancement - The \"Escaped HTML\" warning notice [introduced in ACF 6.2.5](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-2-5-security-release/) is now disabled by default\n* Enhancement - The Icon Picker field now supports supplying an array of icons to a custom tab via a new `acf/fields/icon_picker/{tab_name}/icons` filter\n* Fix - ACF Blocks are now forced into preview mode when editing a synced pattern\n* Fix - The free ACF plugin once again works with the Classic Widgets plugin and the legacy ACF Options Page addon\n* Fix - ACF no longer causes an infinite loop in bbPress when editing replies\n\n= 6.4.0.1 =\n*Release Date 8th April 2025*\n\n* Fix - Calling `acf_get_reference()` with an invalid field name no longer causes a fatal error\n\n= 6.4.0 =\n*Release Date 7th April 2025*\n\n* New - In ACF PRO, fields can now be added to WooCommerce orders when using HPOS\n* Enhancement - ACF now uses Composer to autoload some classes\n* Fix - Repeater pagination now works when the Repeater is inside a Group field\n* Fix - Various translations are no longer called before the WordPress `init` action hook\n* Security - Link field no longer has a minor local XSS vulnerability\n* i18n - Various British English translation strings no longer have a quoting issue breaking links\n* i18n - Added Dutch (formal) translations (props @toineenzo)\n\n= 6.3.12 =\n*Release Date 21st January 2025*\n\n* Enhancement - Error messages that occur when field validation fails due an insufficient security nonce now have additional context\n* Fix - Duplicated ACF blocks no longer lose their field values after the initial save when block preloading is enabled\n* Fix - ACF Blocks containing complex field types now behave correctly when React StrictMode is enabled\n\n= 6.3.11 =\n*Release Date 12th November 2024*\n\n* Enhancement - Field Group keys are now copyable on click\n* Fix - Repeater tables with fields hidden by conditional logic now render correctly\n* Fix - ACF Blocks now behave correctly in React StrictMode\n* Fix - Edit mode is no longer available to ACF Blocks with an WordPress Block API version of 3 as field editing is not supported in the iframe\n\n= 6.3.10.2 =\n*Release Date 29th October 2024*\n*Free Only Release*\n\n* Fix - ACF Free no longer causes a fatal error when any unsupported legacy ACF addons are active\n\n= 6.3.10.1 =\n*Release Date 29th October 2024*\n*Free Only Release*\n\n* Fix - ACF Free no longer causes a fatal error when WPML is active\n\n= 6.3.10 =\n*Release Date 29th October 2024*\n\n* Security - Setting a metabox callback for custom post types and taxonomies now requires being an admin, or super admin for multisite installs\n* Security - Field specific ACF nonces are now prefixed, resolving an issue where third party nonces could be treated as valid for AJAX calls\n* Enhancement - A new “Close and Add Field” option is now available when editing a field group, inserting a new field inline after the field being edited\n* Enhancement - ACF and ACF PRO now share the same plugin updater for improved reliability and performance\n* Fix - Exporting post types and taxonomies containing metabox callbacks now correctly exports the user defined callback\n\n= 6.3.9 =\n*Release Date 15th October 2024*\n\n* Security - Editing an ACF Field in the Field Group editor can no longer execute a stored XSS vulnerability. Thanks to Duc Luong Tran (janlele91) from Viettel Cyber Security for the responsible disclosure\n* Security - Post Type and Taxonomy metabox callbacks no longer have access to any superglobal values, hardening the original fix from 6.3.8 further\n* Fix - ACF fields now correctly validate when used in the block editor and attached to the sidebar\n\n= 6.3.8 =\n*Release Date 7th October 2024*\n\n* Security - ACF defined Post Type and Taxonomy metabox callbacks no longer have access to $_POST data. (Thanks to the Automattic Security Team for the disclosure)\n\n= 6.3.7 =\n*Release Date 2nd October 2024*\n\n* Security - ACF Free now uses its own update mechanism from WP Engine servers\n\n= 6.3.6 =\n*Release Date 28th August 2024*\n\n* Security - Newly added fields now have to be explicitly set to allow access in the content editor (when using the ACF shortcode or Block Bindings) to increase the security around field permissions. [See the release notes for more details](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-3-6/#field-value-access-editor)\n* Security Fix - Field labels are now correctly escaped when rendered in the Field Group editor, to prevent a potential XSS issue. Thanks to Ryo Sotoyama of Mitsui Bussan Secure Directions, Inc. for the responsible disclosure\n* Fix - Validation and Block AJAX requests nonces will no longer be overridden by third party plugins\n* Fix - Detection of third party select2 libraries will now default to v4 rather than v3\n* Fix - Block previews will now display an error if the render template PHP file is not found\n\n= 6.3.5 =\n*Release Date 1st August 2024*\n\n* Fix - The ACF Shortcode now correctly outputs a comma separated list of values for arrays\n* Fix - ACF Blocks rendered in auto mode now correctly re-render their previews after editing fields\n* Fix - ACF Block validation no longer raises required validation messages if HTML will automatically select the first value when rendered\n* Fix - ACF Block validation no longer raises required validation messages if a default value will be rendered as the field value\n* Fix - ACF Block validation no longer raises required validation messages for fields hidden by conditional logic when adding a new block\n\n= 6.3.4 =\n*Release Date 18th July 2024*\n\n* Security Fix - The ACF shortcode now prevents access to fields from different private posts by default. View the [release notes](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-3-4) for more information\n* Fix - Users without the `edit_posts` capability but with custom capabilities for a editing a custom post type, can now correctly load field groups loaded via conditional location rules\n* Fix - Block validation no longer validates a field’s sub fields on page load, only on edit. This resolves inconsistent validation errors on page load or when first adding a block\n* Fix - Deactivating an ACF PRO license will now remove the license key even if the server call fails\n* Fix - Field types returning objects no longer cause PHP warnings and errors when output via `the_field`, `the_sub_field` or the ACF shortcode, or when retrieved by a `get_` function with the escape html parameter set\n* Fix - Server side errors during block rendering now gracefully displays an error to the editor\n\n= 6.3.3 =\n*Release Date 27th June 2024*\n\n* Enhancement - All dashicons are now available to the icon picker field type\n* Fix - The True/False field now correctly shows it’s description message beside the switch when using the Stylized UI setting\n* Fix - Conditional logic values now correctly load options when loaded over AJAX\n* Fix - ACF PRO will no longer trigger license validation calls when loading a front-end page\n* i18n - Fixed an untranslatable string on Option Page previews\n\n= 6.3.2.1 =\n*Release Date 24th June 2024*\n*PRO Only Release*\n\n* Fix - ACF Blocks no longer trigger a JavaScript error when fetched via AJAX\n\n= 6.3.2 =\n*Release Date 24th June 2024*\n\n* Security Fix - ACF now generates different nonces for each AJAX-enabled field, preventing subscribers or front-end form users from querying other field results\n* Security Fix - ACF now correctly verifies permissions for certain editor only actions, preventing subscribers performing those actions\n* Security Fix - Deprecated a legacy private internal field type (output) to prevent it being able to output unsafe HTML\n* Security Fix - Improved handling of some SQL filters and other internal functions to ensure output is always correctly escaped\n* Security Fix - ACF now includes blank index.php files in all folders to prevent directory listing of ACF plugin folders for incorrectly configured web servers\n\n= 6.3.1.2 =\n*Release Date 6th June 2024*\n*PRO Only Release*\n\n* Fix - ACF Blocks in widget areas no longer cause a fatal error when no context is available\n* Fix - ACF Blocks with no fields assigned no longer show a gap in the sidebar where the form would render\n\n= 6.3.1.1 =\n*Release Date 6th June 2024*\n*PRO Only Release*\n\n* Fix - Repeater and Flexible Content fields no longer error when duplicating or removing rows containing Icon Picker subfields\n* Fix - ACF Blocks containing Flexible Content fields now correctly load their edit form\n* Fix - ACF Blocks no longer have a race condition where the data store is not initialized when read\n* Fix - ACF Blocks no longer trigger a JS error for blocks without fields and with an empty no-fields message\n* Fix - ACF Block preloading now works correctly for fields consuming custom block context\n* Fix - ACF Block JavaScript debug messages now correctly appear when SCRIPT_DEBUG is true\n\n= 6.3.1 =\n*Release Date 4th June 2024*\n\n* Enhancement - Options Pages registered in the UI can now be duplicated\n* Fix - ACF Block validation now correctly validates Repeater, Group, and Flexible Content fields\n* Fix - ACF Block validation now correctly validates when a field is using a non-default return type\n* Fix - Fields moved between field groups now correctly updates both JSON files\n* Fix - Icon Picker fields now render correctly when using left-aligned labels\n* Fix - Icon Picker fields no longer renders tabs if only one tab is selected for display\n* Fix - Icon Picker fields no longer crash the post editor if no icon picker tabs are selected for displayed\n* Fix - True/False field now better handles longer On/Off labels\n* Fix - Select2 results loaded by AJAX for multi-select Taxonomy fields no longer double encode HTML entities\n\n= 6.3.0.1 =\n*Release Date 22nd May 2024*\n\n* Fix - A possible fatal error no longer occurs in the new site health functionality for ACF PRO users\n* Fix - A possible undefined index error no longer occurs in ACF Blocks for ACF PRO users\n\n= 6.3.0 =\n*Release Date 22nd May 2024*\n\n* New - ACF now requires WordPress version 6.0 or newer, and PHP 7.4 or newer.\n* New - ACF Blocks now support validation rules for fields. View the [release notes](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-3-0-released) for more information\n* New - ACF Blocks now supports storing field data in the postmeta table rather than in the post content\n* New - Conditional logic rules for fields now support selecting specific values for post objects, page links, taxonomies, relationships and users rather than having to enter the ID\n* New - New Icon Picker field type for ACF and ACF PRO\n* New - Icon selection for a custom post type menu icon\n* New - Icon selection for an options page menu icon\n* New - ACF now surfaces debug and status information in the WordPress Site Health area\n* New - The escaped html notice can now be permanently dismissed\n* Enhancement - Tab field now supports a `selected` attribute to specify which should be selected by default, and support class attributes\n* Fix - Block Preloading now works reliably in WordPress 6.5 or newer\n* Fix - Select2 results loaded by AJAX for post object fields no longer double encode HTML entities\n* Fix - Custom post types registered with ACF will now have custom field support enabled by default to better support revisions\n* Fix - The first preview after publishing a post in the classic editor now displays ACF fields correctly\n* Fix - ACF fields and Flexible Content layouts are now correctly positioned while dragging\n* Fix - Copying the title of a field inside a Flexible Content layout no longer adds whitespace to the copied value\n* Fix - Flexible Content layout names are no longer converted to lowercase when edited\n* Fix - ACF Blocks with attributes without a default now correctly register\n* Fix - User fields no longer trigger a 404 when loading results if the nonce generated only contains numbers\n* Fix - Description fields for ACF items now support being solely numeric characters\n* Fix - The field group header no longer appears above the WordPress admin menu on small screens\n* Fix - The `acf/json/save_file_name` filter now correctly applies when deleting JSON files\n* i18n - All errors raised during ACF PRO license or update checks are now translatable\n* Other - The ACF Shortcode is now disabled by default for new installations of ACF as discussed in the [ACF 6.2.7 release notes](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-2-7-security-release/#security-and-the-acf-shortcode)\n\n= 6.2.10 =\n*Release Date 15th May 2024*\n\n* Security Fix - ACF Blocks no longer allow render templates, or render or asset callbacks to be overridden in the block's attributes. For full information, please read [the release blog post](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-pro-6-2-10-security-release/)\n\n= 6.2.9 =\n*Release Date 8th April 2024*\n\n* Enhancement - The Select2 escapeMarkup function can now be overridden when initializing a custom Select2\n* Fix - “Hide on Screen” settings are now correctly applied when using conditionally loaded field groups\n* Fix - Field names are no longer converted to lowercase when editing the name\n* Fix - Field group titles will no longer convert HTML entities into their encoded form\n\n= 6.2.8 =\n*Release Date 2nd April 2024*\n\n* New - Support for the Block Bindings API in WordPress 6.5 with a new `acf/field` source. For more information on how to use this, please read [the release blog post](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-2-8)\n* New - Support for performance improvements for translations in WordPress 6.5\n* Enhancement - A new JS filter, `select2_escape_markup` now allows fields to customize select2's HTML escaping behavior\n* Fix - Options pages can no longer set to have a parent of themselves\n* Fix - ACF PRO license activations on multisite subsite installs will now use the correct site URL\n* Fix - ACF PRO installed on multisite installs will no longer try to check for updates resulting in 404 errors when the updates page is not visible\n* Fix - ACF JSON no longer produces warnings on Windows servers when no ACF JSON folder is found\n* Fix - Field and layout names can now contain valid non-ASCII characters\n* Other - ACF PRO now requires a valid license to be activated in order to use PRO features. [Learn more](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/resources/license-activations/)\n\n= 6.2.7 =\n*Release Date 27th February 2024*\n\n* Security Fix - `the_field` now escapes potentially unsafe HTML as notified since ACF 6.2.5. For full information, please read [the release blog post](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-2-7-security-release/)\n* Security Fix - Field and Layout names are now enforced to alphanumeric characters, resolving a potential XSS issue\n* Security Fix - The default render template for select2 fields no longer allows HTML to be rendered resolving a potential XSS issue\n* Security Enhancement - A `acf/shortcode/prevent_access` filter is now available to limit what data the ACF shortcode is allowed to access\n* Security Enhancement - i18n translated strings are now escaped on output\n* Enhancement - ACF now universally uses WordPress file system functions rather than native PHP functions\n\n= 6.2.6.1 =\n*Release Date 7th February 2024*\n\n* Fix - Fatal JS error no longer occurs when editing fields in the classic editor when Yoast or other plugins which load block editor components are installed\n* Fix - Using `$escape_html` on get functions for array returning field types no longer produces an Array to string conversion error\n\n= 6.2.6 =\n*Release Date 6th February 2024*\n\n* Enhancement - The `get_field()` and other `get_` functions now support an `escape_html` parameter which return an HTML safe field value\n* Enhancement - The URL field will be now escaped with `esc_url` rather than `wp_kses_post` when returning an HTML safe value\n* Fix - ACF fields will now correctly save into the WordPress created revision resolving issues with previews of drafts on WordPress 6.4 or newer\n* Fix - Multisite subsites will now correctly be activated by the main site where the ACF PRO license allows, hiding the updates page on those subsites\n* Fix - Field types in which the `required` property would have no effect (such as the tab, or accordion) will no longer show the option\n* Fix - Duplicating a field group now maintains the current page of field groups being displayed\n* Fix - Fields in ACF Blocks in edit mode in hybrid themes will now use ACF's styling, rather than some attributes being overridden by the theme\n* Fix - Text in some admin notices will no longer overlap the dismiss button\n* Fix - The word `link` is now prohibited from being used as a CPT name to avoid a WordPress core conflict\n* Fix - Flexible content layouts can no longer be duplicated over their maximum count limit\n* Fix - All ACF notifications shown outside of ACF's admin screens are now prefixed with the plugin name\n* Fix - ACF no longer checks if a polyfill is needed for \u003cPHP7 and the polyfill has been removed\n\n= 6.2.5 =\n*Release Date 16th January 2024*\n\n* Security Fix - The ACF shortcode will now run all output through `wp_kses`, escaping unsafe HTML. This may be a breaking change to your site but is required for security, a message will be shown in WordPress admin if you are affected. Please see the [blog post for this release for more information.](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-2-5-security-release/) Thanks to Francesco Carlucci via Wordfence for the responsible disclosure\n* Security - ACF now warns via an admin message, when upcoming changes to `the_field` and `the_sub_field` may require theme changes to your site to avoid stripping unsafe HTML. Please see the [blog post for this release for more information](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-2-5-security-release/)\n* Security - Users may opt in to automatically escaping unsafe HTML via a new filter `acf/the_field/escape_html_optin` when using `the_field` and `the_sub_field` before this becomes default in an upcoming ACF release.\n\n= 6.2.4 =\n*Release Date 28th November 2023*\n\n* Fix - Custom Post Types labels now match the WordPress 6.4 behavior for \"Add New\" labels\n* Fix - When exporting both post types and taxonomies as PHP, taxonomies will now appear before post types, matching the order ACF registers them. This resolves issues where taxonomy slugs will not work in post type permalinks\n* Fix - Advanced Settings for Taxonomies, Post Types or Options Pages now display with the correct top padding when toggled on\n* Fix - When a parent option page is set to \"Redirect to Child Page\", the child page will now correctly show it's parent setting\n* Fix - When activated as a must-use plugin, the ACF PRO \"Updates\" page is now visible. Use the existing `show_updates` setting to hide\n* Fix - When activated as a must-use plugin, ACF PRO licenses defined in code will now correctly activate sites\n* Fix - When `show_updates` is set or filtered to false, ACF PRO will now automatically still activate defined licenses\n* i18n - Maintenance and internal upstream messages from the ACF PRO activation server are now translatable\n\n= 6.2.3 =\n*Release Date 15th November 2023*\n\n* [View Release Post](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-2-3/)\n* New - An ACF Blocks specific JSON schema for block.json is now available on [GitHub](https://github.com/AdvancedCustomFields/schemas)\n* New - Flexible Content fields now show the layout name in the layout's header bar and supports click-to-copy\n* New - Duplicating Flexible Content layouts now appends \"Copy\" to their name and label, matching the behavior of field group duplication\n* Enhancement - ACF PRO will now automatically attempt license reactivation when the site URL changes, e.g. after a site migration. This resolves issues where updates may fail\n* Enhancement - Presentation setting for \"High\" placement of the Field Group made clear that it's not supported in the block editor\n* Fix - `acf_format_date` now ensures the date parameter is valid to prevent fatal errors if other data types are passed in\n* Fix - CPTs with a custom icon URL now display the posts icon in the location column of the field groups screen\n* Fix - The ACF JSON import form will now disable on first submit resolving an issue where you could submit the form twice\n* Fix - The \"Add Row\" button in the Flexible Content field now displays correctly when using nested layouts\n* Fix - Warning and Error notices no longer flicker on ACF admin pages load\n* i18n - ACF PRO license activation success and error messages are now translatable\n\n= 6.2.2 =\n*Release Date 25th October 2023*\n\n* Enhancement - ACF Blocks which have not been initialized by the editor will now render correctly\n* Enhancement - Added a new `acf/filesize` filter to allow third party media plugins to bypass ACF calling `filesize()` on attachments with uncached file sizes, which may result in a remote download if offloaded\n* Enhancement - ACF PRO license status and subscription expiry dates are now displayed on the “Updates” page\n* Fix - Product pages for WooCommerce version 8.2 or newer now correctly support field group location rules\n* Fix - Relationship field items can now be removed on mobile devices\n* Fix - Color picker fields no longer autocomplete immediately after typing 3 valid hex characters\n* Fix - Field settings no longer appear misaligned when the viewport is something other than 100%\n* Fix - Select fields without an aria-label no longer throw a warning\n* Fix - CPTs and Taxonomies with a custom text domain now export correctly when using PHP export\n\n= 6.2.1.1 =\n*Release Date 8th September 2023*\n\n* Fix - Editing a field group no longer generates an error when UI options pages are disabled\n\n= 6.2.1 =\n*Release Date 7th September 2023*\n\n* New - Options Pages created in the admin UI can now be assigned as child pages for any top-level menu item\n* New - Added a \"Title Placeholder\" setting to ACF Post Types which filters the \"Add title\" text when editing posts\n* Enhancement - ACF PRO will now warn when it can't update due to PHP version incompatibilities\n* Enhancement - ACF PRO will now work correctly with WordPress automatic updates\n* Enhancement - The internal ACF Blocks template attribute parser function `parseNodeAttr` can now be shortcut with the new `acf_blocks_parse_node_attr` filter.\n* Enhancement - Removed legacy code for supporting WordPress versions under 5.8\n* Fix - The \"Menu Position\" setting is no longer hidden for child options pages\n* Fix - The tabs for the \"Advanced\" settings in Post Types and Taxonomies are now rendered inside a wrapper div\n* Fix - Options pages will no longer display as a child page in the list view when set to a top level page after previously being a child\n* Fix - Conflict with Elementor CSS breaking the ACF PRO banner\n* Fix - Errors generated during the block editor's `savePost` function will no longer be caught and ignored by ACF\n\n= 6.2.0 =\n*Release Date 9th August 2023*\n\n* [View Release Post](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-2-0-released/)\n* New - ACF now requires WordPress version 5.8 or newer, and PHP 7.0 or newer. View the [release post](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-2-0-released/#version-requirements) for more information\n* New - Bidirectional Relationships now supported for Relationship, Post Object, User and Taxonomy fields. View the [release post](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-2-0-released/#bidirectional-relationships) for more information\n* New - [Options Pages](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/resources/options-page/) can now be registered and managed by the admin UI in ACF PRO\n* New - Link to the [product feedback board](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/feedback/) added to the plugin footer\n* Enhancement - ACF JSON now supports multiple save locations (props Freddy Leitner)\n* Enhancement - ACF Post Types and Taxonomies can now be duplicated\n* Enhancement - The filename for JSON files can now be customized with the `acf/json/save_file_name` filter\n* Fix - REST updates of fields with choices containing integer or mixed keys now behave correctly\n* Fix - Using the `block_type_metadata_settings` PHP filter to add usesContext values no longer breaks ACF blocks\n* Fix - Notice to import post types/taxonomies from CPTUI no longer flashes on page load\n* Fix - Various buttons for fields in blocks now display correctly\n* Fix - The settings for the DateTime field are no longer cut off when nested in several fields in the field group editor\n* Fix - The newline added to the end of JSON files will now use `PHP_EOL` to detect the correct newline character with a filter `acf/json/eof_newline` to alter it.\n* i18n - Updated French and Portuguese translations (Thanks to pedro-mendonca and maximebj)\n\n[View the full changelog](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/changelog/)\n\n== Upgrade Notice ==","meta":{"last_version":"6.4.3"},"ip":"107.180.250.162","timestamp":"2025-09-09T15:51:29.758998+05:30","curl-command":"curl -X 'GET' -d '' -H 'Accept: */*' -H 'Accept-Language: en' -H 'User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Fedora; Linux x86_64; rv:126.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/126.0' 'https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/advanced-custom-fields/readme.txt'","matcher-status":true}
{"template":"http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/akismet.yaml","template-url":"https://cloud.projectdiscovery.io/public/wordpress-akismet","template-id":"wordpress-akismet","template-path":"/Users/ayushi/nuclei-templates/http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/akismet.yaml","info":{"name":"Akismet Anti-spam' Spam Protection Detection","author":["ricardomaia"],"tags":["tech","wordpress","wp-plugin","top-100","top-200"],"reference":["https://wordpress.org/plugins/akismet/"],"severity":"info","metadata":{"plugin_namespace":"akismet","wpscan":"https://wpscan.com/plugin/akismet"}},"extractor-name":"detected_version","type":"http","host":"hypertrends.com","port":"443","scheme":"https","url":"https://hypertrends.com","matched-at":"https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/akismet/readme.txt","extracted-results":["5.5"],"request":"GET /wp-content/plugins/akismet/readme.txt HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: hypertrends.com\r\nUser-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (ZZ; Linux x86_64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/118.0.0.0 Safari/537.36\r\nAccept: */*\r\nAccept-Language: en\r\nAccept-Encoding: gzip\r\n\r\n","response":"HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r\nConnection: close\r\nTransfer-Encoding: chunked\r\nContent-Security-Policy: default-src * 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval' data: blob:;\r\nContent-Type: text/plain\r\nDate: Tue, 09 Sep 2025 10:21:29 GMT\r\nEtag: W/\"689196bb-16ad\"\r\nLast-Modified: Tue, 05 Aug 2025 05:29:31 GMT\r\nReferrer-Policy: no-referrer-when-downgrade\r\nServer: nginx\r\nStrict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000;\r\nVary: Accept-Encoding\r\nX-Content-Type-Options: nosniff\r\nX-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN\r\nX-Rocket-Nginx-Serving-Static: MISS\r\nX-Xss-Protection: 1; mode=block\r\n\r\n=== Akismet Anti-spam: Spam Protection ===\nContributors: matt, ryan, andy, mdawaffe, tellyworth, josephscott, lessbloat, eoigal, cfinke, automattic, jgs, procifer, stephdau, kbrownkd, bluefuton, derekspringer, lschuyler, andyperdomo, akismetantispam\nTags: comments, spam, antispam, anti-spam, contact form\nRequires at least: 5.8\nTested up to: 6.8.1\nStable tag: 5.5\nLicense: GPLv2 or later\n\nThe best anti-spam protection to block spam comments and spam in a contact form. The most trusted antispam solution for WordPress and WooCommerce.\n\n== Description ==\n\nThe best anti-spam protection to block spam comments and spam in a contact form. The most trusted antispam solution for WordPress and WooCommerce.\n\nAkismet checks your comments and contact form submissions against our global database of spam to prevent your site from publishing malicious content. You can review the comment spam it catches on your blog's \"Comments\" admin screen.\n\nMajor features in Akismet include:\n\n* Automatically checks all comments and filters out the ones that look like spam.\n* Each comment has a status history, so you can easily see which comments were caught or cleared by Akismet and which were spammed or unspammed by a moderator.\n* URLs are shown in the comment body to reveal hidden or misleading links.\n* Moderators can see the number of approved comments for each user.\n* A discard feature that outright blocks the worst spam, saving you disk space and speeding up your site.\n\nPS: You'll be prompted to get an Akismet.com API key to use it, once activated. Keys are free for personal blogs; paid subscriptions are available for businesses and commercial sites.\n\n== Installation ==\n\nUpload the Akismet plugin to your blog, activate it, and then enter your Akismet.com API key.\n\n1, 2, 3: You're done!\n\n== Changelog ==\n\n= 5.5 =\n*Release Date - 15 July 2025*\n\n* Enable webhooks so that Akismet can process comments asynchronously to detect more types of spam.\n* Only include the Akismet widget CSS when the Akismet widget is present\n* Improve contrast/readability for certain UI elements\n\n= 5.4 =\n*Release Date - 7 May 2025*\n\n* The stats pages now use the user's locale instead of the site's locale if they're different.\n* Adds a 'Compatible plugins' section that will show installed and active plugins that are compatible with Akismet.\n* Akismet now requires PHP version 7.2 or above.\n\n= 5.3.7 =\n*Release Date - 14 February 2025*\n\n* Simplify the logic used during a comment-check request to compare comments.\n\n= 5.3.6 =\n*Release Date - 4 February 2025*\n\n* Improve the utility of submit-spam and submit-ham requests.\n* Modernize styles for the Akismet classic widget.\n\n= 5.3.5 =\n*Release Date - 18 November 2024*\n\n* Address compatibility issues with \u003c PHP 7.3 in v5.3.4 release.\n\n= 5.3.4 =\n*Release Date - 18 November 2024*\n\n* Improve activation notice on Comments for users who haven't set up their API key yet.\n* Improve notice about commercial site status.\n\n= 5.3.3 =\n*Release Date - 10 July 2024*\n\n* Make setup step clearer for new users.\n* Remove the stats section from the configuration page if the site has been revoked from the key.\n* Skip the Akismet comment check when the comment matches something in the disallowed list.\n* Prompt users on legacy plans to contact Akismet support for upgrades.\n\n= 5.3.2 =\n*Release Date - 21 March 2024*\n\n* Improve the empty state shown to new users when no spam has been caught yet.\n* Update the message shown to users without a current subscription.\n* Add foundations for future webhook support.\n\n= 5.3.1 =\n*Release Date - 17 January 2024*\n\n* Make the plugin more resilient when asset files are missing (as seen in WordPress Playground).\n* Add a link to the 'Account overview' page on akismet.com.\n* Fix a minor error that occurs when another plugin removes all comment actions from the dashboard.\n* Add the akismet_request_args filter to allow request args in Akismet API requests to be filtered.\n* Fix a bug that causes some contact forms to include unnecessary data in the comment_content parameter.\n\n= 5.3 =\n*Release Date - 14 September 2023*\n\n* Improve display of user notices.\n* Add stylesheets for RTL languages.\n* Remove initial disabled state from 'Save changes' button.\n* Improve accessibility of API key entry form.\n* Add new filter hooks for Fluent Forms.\n* Fix issue with PHP 8.1 compatibility.\n\n= 5.2 =\n*Release Date - 21 June 2023*\n\n* Visual refresh of Akismet stats.\n* Improve PHP 8.1 compatibility.\n* Improve appearance of plugin to match updated stats.\n* Change minimum supported PHP version to 5.6 to match WordPress.\n* Drop IE11 support and update minimum WordPress version to 5.8 (where IE11 support was removed from WP Core).\n\n= 5.1 =\n*Release Date - 20 March 2023*\n\n* Removed unnecessary limit notices from admin page.\n* Improved spam detection by including post taxonomies in the comment-check call.\n* Removed API keys from stats iframes to avoid possible inadvertent exposure.\n\n= 5.0.2 =\n*Release Date - 1 December 2022*\n\n* Improved compatibility with themes that hide or show UI elements based on mouse movements.\n* Increased security of API keys by sending them in request bodies instead of subdomains.\n\n= 5.0.1 =\n*Release Date - 28 September 2022*\n\n* Added an empty state for the Statistics section on the admin page.\n* Fixed a bug that broke some admin page links when Jetpack plugins are active.\n* Marked some event listeners as passive to improve performance in newer browsers.\n* Disabled interaction observation on forms that post to other domains.\n\n= 5.0 =\n*Release Date - 26 July 2022*\n\n* Added a new feature to catch spammers by observing how they interact with the page.\n\nFor older changelog entries, please see the [additional changelog.txt file](https://plugins.svn.wordpress.org/akismet/trunk/changelog.txt) delivered with the plugin.\n","meta":{"last_version":"5.5"},"ip":"107.180.250.162","timestamp":"2025-09-09T15:51:29.767032+05:30","curl-command":"curl -X 'GET' -d '' -H 'Accept: */*' -H 'Accept-Language: en' -H 'User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (ZZ; Linux x86_64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/118.0.0.0 Safari/537.36' 'https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/akismet/readme.txt'","matcher-status":true}
{"template":"http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/all-in-one-wp-migration.yaml","template-url":"https://cloud.projectdiscovery.io/public/wordpress-all-in-one-wp-migration","template-id":"wordpress-all-in-one-wp-migration","template-path":"/Users/ayushi/nuclei-templates/http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/all-in-one-wp-migration.yaml","info":{"name":"All-in-One WP Migration and Backup Detection","author":["ricardomaia"],"tags":["tech","wordpress","wp-plugin","top-100","top-200"],"reference":["https://wordpress.org/plugins/all-in-one-wp-migration/"],"severity":"info","metadata":{"plugin_namespace":"all-in-one-wp-migration","wpscan":"https://wpscan.com/plugin/all-in-one-wp-migration"}},"extractor-name":"detected_version","type":"http","host":"hypertrends.com","port":"443","scheme":"https","url":"https://hypertrends.com","matched-at":"https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/all-in-one-wp-migration/readme.txt","extracted-results":["7.98"],"request":"GET /wp-content/plugins/all-in-one-wp-migration/readme.txt HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: hypertrends.com\r\nUser-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux i686; rv:128.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/128.0\r\nAccept: */*\r\nAccept-Language: en\r\nAccept-Encoding: gzip\r\n\r\n","response":"HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r\nConnection: close\r\nTransfer-Encoding: chunked\r\nContent-Security-Policy: default-src * 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval' data: blob:;\r\nContent-Type: text/plain\r\nDate: Tue, 09 Sep 2025 10:21:30 GMT\r\nEtag: W/\"68b00f1b-2cef\"\r\nLast-Modified: Thu, 28 Aug 2025 08:11:07 GMT\r\nReferrer-Policy: no-referrer-when-downgrade\r\nServer: nginx\r\nStrict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000;\r\nVary: Accept-Encoding\r\nX-Content-Type-Options: nosniff\r\nX-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN\r\nX-Rocket-Nginx-Serving-Static: MISS\r\nX-Xss-Protection: 1; mode=block\r\n\r\n=== All-in-One WP Migration and Backup ===\nContributors: yani.iliev, bangelov, pimjitsawang\nTags: backup, transfer, copy, move, clone\nRequires at least: 3.3\nTested up to: 6.8\nRequires PHP: 5.3\nStable tag: 7.98\nLicense: GPLv3 or later\n\nTrusted by 60M+ sites: The gold standard for WordPress migrations, backups, and site transfers since 2013.\n\n== Description ==\n**The Most Trusted WordPress Migration \u0026 Backup Solution Since 2013**\n\nAll-in-One WP Migration is the gold standard for WordPress site migration, used by over 60 million websites worldwide - from small blogs to Fortune 500 companies and government agencies. Our plugin offers enterprise-grade reliability with beginner-friendly simplicity.\n\n**Why Choose All-in-One WP Migration?**\n\n* **Effortless Migration**: Export your entire site with a single click - including database, media, themes, and plugins\n* **Zero Downtime**: Complete your migration with no service interruptions\n* **Universal Compatibility**: Works across all hosting providers, from budget shared hosting to high-end dedicated servers\n* **Technical Excellence**: Engineered for reliability with memory-efficient processing (512KB chunks), ideal for resource-limited environments\n* **No Technical Skills Required**: Intuitive interface designed for users of all skill levels\n* **Cross-Database Support**: Seamlessly move between MySQL, MariaDB, and SQLite databases\n* **Secure \u0026 Reliable**: Trusted by Boeing, NASA, Harvard, Stanford, Automattic, and government agencies worldwide\n\n**How It Works - Simple as 1-2-3:**\n\n1. **Install** the plugin on your source and destination sites\n2. **Export** your site to a .wpress file with one click\n3. **Import** using our drag-and-drop importer on your destination site\n\n**For Developers \u0026 Power Users:**\n\n* **Advanced Find \u0026 Replace**: Control exactly what changes during migration\n* **Selective Content Migration**: Include/exclude specific content types\n* **PHP 5.3-8.4 Compatibility**: Works across virtually all hosting environments\n* **Custom WPress Format**: Our optimized archive format ensures data integrity\n* **Hook System**: Extensive API for custom integration and workflows\n* **Command-Line Support**: Automate migrations via WP-CLI\n\n**Premium Extensions:**\n\nEnhance your migration workflow with our [premium extensions](https://servmask.com/products) for:\n\n* **Unlimited Site Size**: Migrate sites of any size\n* **Cloud Storage Integration**: Direct migration to/from Dropbox, Google Drive, OneDrive, and more\n* **Multisite Support**: Migrate complex WordPress networks\n* **Scheduled Backups**: Automated, recurring backups\n* **Database Filtering**: Exclude specific tables or data\n\n**Features Spotlight:**\n\n* WCAG 2.1 AA Level accessibility compliance\n* Mobile-responsive interface\n* [Browse WPRESS files online](https://traktor.servmask.com) or [extract locally](https://traktor.wp-migration.com)\n* Automatic URL and path replacement\n* WordPress Playground integration for SQLite/MySQL migration\n* Regular bi-weekly updates ensuring compatibility with the latest WordPress versions\n* Available in 50+ languages including Japanese\n\n**Trusted by the Government and Big Corporations:**\n\nMany enterprise customers, government organizations, and universities use, love, and trust All-in-One WP Migration. Here are some: Boeing, NASA, VW, IBM, Harvard University, Stanford University, Lego, P\u0026G, Automattic, State of California, State of Hawaii.\nThis broad adoption and usage of All-in-One WP Migration demonstrate how **safe, reliable and adaptable** the plugin is for just about any website migration need.\n\n**Update Frequency:**\nOur team is dedicated to keeping All-in-One WP Migration up-to-date and secure. We release updates every two weeks or at least once a month, ensuring compatibility with the latest WordPress versions, including beta releases. Our proactive testing and feedback to the WordPress core team help in preemptively addressing any potential issues, providing our users with a reliable and forward-compatible migration and backup solution.\n\n**Full Compatibility and Support:**\n\nAll-in-One WP Migration has been extensively tested and confirmed to be compatible with most WordPress plugins and themes.\nThis means you don't get to experience cross-plugin compatibility issues that can slow down, bug, or break down your WordPress website when you install and use All-in-One WP Migration.\nAs a matter of fact, All-in-One WP Migration has partnered with multiple theme/plugin vendors to distribute their themes/plugins with us as a single, easy to use, easy to install package.\nThese vendors trust us and our plugin to provide their customers with reliable product delivery, support, migrations, and backups.\n\n**Cloud Storage Supported:**\n\nAll-in-One WP Migration supports and syncs seamlessly with top cloud storage services.\nThe plugin comes preinstalled on all Bitnami WordPress sites running on AWS, Google Compute Cloud, and Microsoft Azure.\n\n**Case Studies:**\n\n* Small Business Growth: A small online retailer was able to seamlessly migrate to a more robust hosting solution to handle increasing traffic during peak shopping seasons, ensuring smooth customer experiences without downtime.\n* Educational Institutions: A prominent university utilized All-in-One WP Migration to consolidate multiple departmental sites into a single, unified WordPress network, simplifying management and enhancing site security.\n* Government Reliability: Following a directive to improve digital accessibility, a government agency used our plugin to migrate their content to a new, compliant platform without impacting public access to critical information.\n\n= Contact us =\n* [Report a security vulnerability](https://patchstack.com/database/vdp/all-in-one-wp-migration)\n* [Get free help from us here](https://servmask.com/help)\n* [Report a bug or request a feature](https://servmask.com/help)\n* [Find out more about us](https://servmask.com)\n\n[youtube http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BpWxCeUWBOk]\n\n[youtube http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRp7qTFYKgs]\n\n== Installation ==\n1. All-in-One WP Migration can be installed directly through your WordPress Plugins dashboard.\n1. Click \"Add New\" and Search for \"All-in-One WP Migration\"\n1. Install and Activate\n\nAlternatively, you can download the plugin using the download button on this page and then upload the all-in-one-wp-migration folder to the /wp-content/plugins/ directory then activate throught the Plugins dashboard in WordPress\n\n== Screenshots ==\n1. Mobile Export page\n2. Mobile Import page\n3. Plugin Menu\n\n== Privacy Policy ==\nAll-in-One WP Migration is designed to fully respect and protect the personal information of its users. It asks for your consent to collect the user's email address when filling the plugin's contact form.\nAll-in-One WP Migration is in full compliance with General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).\nSee our [GDPR Compliant Privacy Policy here](https://www.iubenda.com/privacy-policy/946881).\n\n== Changelog ==\n= 7.98 =\n**Added**\n\n* WP_IMPORTING constant for better hosting providers compatibility\n\n**Fixed**\n\n* Stored Cross-Site Scripting vulnerability in file upload (CVE-2025-8490). Thank you WordFence and Jack Pas for reporting this. [What you need to know](https://help.servmask.com/knowledgebase/cve-2025-8490-what-you-need-to-know).\n* File upload exceptions handling for better error reporting\n\n**Improved**\n\n* PHP 8 compatibility issues in MySQLi database handler\n* File uploader refactored for enhanced security and reliability\n\n= 7.97 =\n**Added**\n\n* SQLite support in AUTO_INCREMENT check\n\n**Fixed**\n\n* Database replacement for serialized values to handle edge cases with string length validation\n\n= 7.96 =\n**Added**\n\n* Admin notice warning when AUTO_INCREMENT is missing on wp_options table\n\n= 7.95 =\n**Added**\n\n* New action hook ai1wm_status_export_init for developers on export initialization\n\n**Fixed**\n\n* Theme export progress display showing incorrect percentage\n* Uninstall.php script functionality\n* Export and import button ordering\n* Dropdown height styling issues\n\n= 7.94 =\n**Added**\n\n* Refresh Elementor plugin cache on import\n\n= 7.93 =\n**Fixed**\n\n* Compatibility issue with PHP 7 and PHP 5 due to trailing comma in style registration\n\n= 7.92 =\n**Improved**\n\n* Passed Plugin Check Plugin (PCP) validation\n* Archive name generation\n\n= 7.91 =\n**Added**\n\n* CiviCRM for WordPress support\n\n= 7.90 =\n**Added**\n\n* Introduced a constant to disable MySQL late row lookups for enhanced database performance\n\n**Improved**\n\n* Enhanced SQLite database integration for improved stability and efficiency\n* Strengthened serialization replacement mechanism to address an unauthenticated PHP Object Injection vulnerability (CVE-2024-10942). Special thanks to Webbernaut for responsibly disclosing this issue\n* Preserved the wp_rocket_settings option during exports for improved user experience\n\n**Fixed**\n\n* Resolved PHP 8.4 deprecation warnings\n\n= 7.89 =\n**Improved**\n\n* Upgraded to Node.js 22 for better performance and security\n* Updated all plugin dependencies to keep things running smoothly and securely\n\n= 7.88 =\n**Fixed**\n\n* Fixed an issue where the upload progress was stuck at 100%\n* Fixed an issue where the upload could not be cancelled before it was completed\n\n**Improved**\n\n* Improved user-facing messages to be friendlier, direct, consistent, and more informative.\n\n= 7.87 =\n**Fixed**\n\n* Resolved a vulnerability where error logs were publicly accessible with a known name by appending random affixes to error log filenames, making them unguessable. Error logs are now automatically deleted daily and during plugin updates. Special thanks to villu164 for responsibly disclosing this issue.\n* Resolved a vulnerability where an administrator user could inject arbitrary PHP code through specific inputs. This vulnerability requires administrator-level access to exploit, ensuring that unauthorized users cannot perform this action. Special thanks to Ryan Kozak for responsibly disclosing this issue.\n\n= 7.86 =\n**Fixed**\n\n* Resolved an issue with PHP 8.4 compatibility and restoring backup files via WP-CLI\n\n= 7.85 =\n**Added**\n\n* PHP 8.4 compatibility\n\n= 7.84 =\n**Added**\n\n* New hooks during the export and import processes to allow for custom actions and integrations\n\n= 7.83 =\n**Fixed**\n\n* Resolved an issue where downloading backup files was failing on WordPress Playground environments\n\n= 7.82 =\n**Added**\n\n* SQLite support\n* WordPress Playground support\n\n= 7.81 =\n**Added**\n\n* Reset Hub Page: Introducing a new reset hub page, providing users with powerful reset tools for efficient site management. This feature allows for easier resets of WordPress environments, facilitating smoother development and testing workflows.\n\n**Improved**\n\n* Better W3TC Support\n* PHP Compatibility Checks: Display a warning notification, when you move/restore your site to a different PHP version.\n\n= 7.80 =\n**Added**\n\n* Support for update-services plugin\n* Domain name conversion to dashes from dots in the backup name for improved hosting providers compatibility\n\n**Improved**\n\n* Better support for Multisite to Standalone and Standalone to Multisite exports and imports, streamlining the migration process\n\n= 7.79 =\n**Added**\n\n* Support for WordPress v6.4\n\n= 7.78 =\n**Added**\n\n* Implemented a new Schedules page within the plugin, displaying various advanced features exclusive to premium extensions\n\n= 7.77 =\n**Added**\n\n* Tested the new version of WordPress 6.3\n\n= 7.76 =\n**Fixed**\n\n* Removed the [beta] label from advanced settings\n","meta":{"last_version":"7.97"},"ip":"107.180.250.162","timestamp":"2025-09-09T15:51:30.676824+05:30","curl-command":"curl -X 'GET' -d '' -H 'Accept: */*' -H 'Accept-Language: en' -H 'User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux i686; rv:128.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/128.0' 'https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/all-in-one-wp-migration/readme.txt'","matcher-status":true}
{"template":"http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/all-in-one-seo-pack.yaml","template-url":"https://cloud.projectdiscovery.io/public/wordpress-all-in-one-seo-pack","template-id":"wordpress-all-in-one-seo-pack","template-path":"/Users/ayushi/nuclei-templates/http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/all-in-one-seo-pack.yaml","info":{"name":"All in One SEO – Powerful SEO Plugin to Boost SEO Rankings \u0026 Increase Traffic Detection","author":["ricardomaia"],"tags":["tech","wordpress","wp-plugin","top-100","top-200"],"reference":["https://wordpress.org/plugins/all-in-one-seo-pack/"],"severity":"info","metadata":{"plugin_namespace":"all-in-one-seo-pack","wpscan":"https://wpscan.com/plugin/all-in-one-seo-pack"}},"extractor-name":"detected_version","type":"http","host":"hypertrends.com","port":"443","scheme":"https","url":"https://hypertrends.com","matched-at":"https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/all-in-one-seo-pack/readme.txt","extracted-results":["4.8.7"],"request":"GET /wp-content/plugins/all-in-one-seo-pack/readme.txt HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: hypertrends.com\r\nUser-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Mac OS X 13_2) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Edge/113.0 Safari/537.36\r\nAccept: */*\r\nAccept-Language: en\r\nAccept-Encoding: gzip\r\n\r\n","response":"HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r\nConnection: close\r\nTransfer-Encoding: chunked\r\nContent-Security-Policy: default-src * 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval' data: blob:;\r\nContent-Type: text/plain\r\nDate: Tue, 09 Sep 2025 10:21:30 GMT\r\nEtag: W/\"68b915d8-6450\"\r\nLast-Modified: Thu, 04 Sep 2025 04:30:16 GMT\r\nReferrer-Policy: no-referrer-when-downgrade\r\nServer: nginx\r\nStrict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000;\r\nVary: Accept-Encoding\r\nX-Content-Type-Options: nosniff\r\nX-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN\r\nX-Rocket-Nginx-Serving-Static: MISS\r\nX-Xss-Protection: 1; mode=block\r\n\r\n=== All in One SEO – Powerful SEO Plugin to Boost SEO Rankings \u0026 Increase Traffic ===\nContributors: aioseo, smub, benjaminprojas\nTags: SEO, Google Search Console, XML Sitemap, meta description, schema\nTested up to: 6.8\nRequires at least: 5.4\nRequires PHP: 7.2\nStable tag: 4.8.7\nLicense: GPLv3 or later\nLicense URI: https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.txt\n\nAIOSEO is the most powerful WordPress SEO plugin. Improve SEO rankings and traffic with comprehensive SEO tools and smart AI SEO optimizations!\n\n== Description ==\n\n### AIOSEO - The Best WordPress SEO Plugin \u0026 Toolkit ###\n\nAll in One SEO is the original WordPress SEO plugin started in 2007. Today, over 3 million website owners and SEO experts use AIOSEO for higher SEO rankings.\n\nOur users consistently rate [AIOSEO](https://aioseo.com/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin 'All in One SEO for WordPress') as the most comprehensive WordPress SEO plugin and marketing toolkit. It's the fastest way to optimize WordPress SEO settings, add schema markup, create XML sitemap, add local SEO, track SEO keyword rankings, automate internal linking, perform SEO audits, add Author SEO (EEAT), monitor SEO revisions, connect Google search console, and basically everything a SEO Pro would use to rank higher in search engines. \n\nWe have AI SEO features that help you optimize your posts for SEO by automatically generating SEO titles, meta descriptions, FAQs, key points, social media posts, and more.\n\n\u003e \u003cstrong\u003eAIOSEO Pro\u003c/strong\u003e\u003cbr /\u003e\n\u003e This is the lite version of the All in One WordPress SEO Pro plugin that comes with all the powerful SEO features you will ever need to rank higher in search engines including **smart SEO schema markup, advanced SEO modules, powerful SEO sitemap suite, local SEO module, SEO keyword ranking tracking, automatic internal linking, WooCommerce SEO**, and tons more. [Click here to purchase the best premium WordPress SEO plugin now!](https://aioseo.com/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin 'All in One SEO for WordPress')\n\nHere's why smart business owners, SEO experts, marketers, and developers love AIOSEO, and you will too!\n\n[youtube https://youtu.be/UbOYEEIvXvY]\n\n### What Makes AIOSEO Better than Other WordPress SEO Plugins ###\n\nAIOSEO is leading the innovation in WordPress SEO space, and our SEO features will give you a competitive advantage.\n\n* **Easy SEO Setup Wizard**\nOur SEO setup wizard optimizes your website's SEO settings based on your unique industry needs in less than 5 minutes.\n\n* **Smart Schema Markup (aka Rich Snippets)** \nGet better click through rate (CTR) and Google rich featured snippets using advanced SEO schema markups like FAQ schema, product schema, recipe schema markup, and dozens more using our custom [Schema Generator](https://aioseo.com/features/rich-snippets-schema/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin 'Schema Generator').\n\n* **AI Content Generator** \nSave time by automatically generating SEO titles, meta descriptions, FAQs, key points, social media posts, and more using our [AI Content Generator](https://aioseo.com/features/ai-content-generator/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin 'AI Content Generator').\n\n* **Unlimited SEO Keywords** \nOptimize for unlimited SEO keywords using our SEO content analyzer. Our TruSEO score gives you detailed content \u0026 readability analysis, so you can get higher SEO rankings.\n\n* **Google Keyword Rank Tracking**\nEasily track how your website is ranking for different keywords in Google from your [WordPress dashboard](https://aioseo.com/features/search-statistics/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin 'Google Keyword Rank Tracker').\n\n* **Automatic Link Assistant**\nAutomate internal links between your pages using our smart [internal linking algorithm](https://aioseo.com/features/internal-link-assistant/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin 'Link Assistant') that will help improve on-page SEO.\n\n* **Local Business SEO**\nImprove your local SEO presence with local business schema, support for multiple local store locations, business opening hours, Google Maps integration, contact info (business email, business phone, business address, etc), and more with our [Local SEO module](https://aioseo.com/features/local-seo/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin 'Local SEO').\n\n* **Site Audit**\nGet a detailed report of SEO issues for all posts and terms on your site, discover why these issues are important and how you can fix them.\n\n* **SEO Revisions**\nKeep a [historical record of SEO changes](https://aioseo.com/seo-revisions/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin 'SEO Revisions'), monitor the impact of changes, and restore previous versions in one click.\n\n* **Content Decay Tracking**\nNever lose traffic to competitors. Quickly detect which content is losing traffic / SEO rankings, so you can optimize it to regain your rankings with our [Search Statistics module](https://aioseo.com/features/search-statistics/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin 'Search Statistics').\n\n* **Smart XML Sitemap**\nAdvanced XML sitemaps to boost your SEO rankings (with easy setup inside Google Search Console). Also includes Video SEO XML sitemap, News SEO XML sitemap, RSS sitemap, and HTML sitemap.\n\n* **Smart SEO Redirects**\nThe most powerful [SEO Redirection manager](https://aioseo.com/features/redirection-manager/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin 'Redirection Manager') for setting up advanced SEO redirects including 301 redirects, 302, 307, 410, 404 redirection, REGEX redirects, and more.\n\n* **404 Error Monitor**\nAutomatic 404 error monitor helps you track and redirect 404 errors, so you don't lose SEO rankings.\n\n* **Author SEO**\nAdd [custom author profile pages, author bio box, and relevant author schema](https://aioseo.com/features/author-seo-google-e-e-a-t/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin 'Author SEO (E-E-A-T)') to boost Google EEAT score to help with Google's Helpful Content Update (HCU).\n\n* **LLMs.txt Generator**\nGenerate an llms.txt file to help AI engines discover your site's content more easily so your content can rank in AI search results.\n\n* **SEO Audit Checklist**\nImprove your SEO ranking with our comprehensive SEO audit checklist.\n\n* **Knowledge Graph Support**\nImprove your website's search appearance with SEO Knowledge panel.\n\n* **Table of Contents**\nAutomatically generate a table of content, customize headings, anchors, and you can also hide or reorder the headings.\n\n### Advanced SEO Plugin Features ###\n\n* **User Access Control**\nControl who can manage your SEO settings with our advanced SEO access control.\n\n* **WordPress REST API**\nManage your SEO metadata with WordPress REST API. Great for headless WordPress installations.\n\n* **Advanced Robots Meta SEO Settings**\nGranular controls for no index, no follow, no archive, no snippet, max snippet, max video, etc.\n\n* **RSS Content for SEO**\nStop content scraping from hurting your SEO rankings.\n\n* **Full Site Redirects**\nMerging websites or switching domains? Full site redirect makes it easy to switch domains without losing SEO rankings.\n\n* **Smart Meta Title \u0026 Description**\nAutomatic SEO generation, dynamic SEO smart tags, include Emoji, add shortcodes, and more features to stand out in search results.\n\n* **Smart Breadcrumbs**\nAdd Breadcrumb navigation to improve user experience and boost your SEO rankings. Comes with full SEO JSON+LD support.\n\n* **Automatic Image SEO**\nHelps your images rank higher by autogenerating image title, clean SEO image filenames, and more.\n\n* **Advanced SEO Canonical URLs**\nPrevent duplicate content in SEO with automatic canonical URLs.\n\n* **SEO Cleanup / Manual SEO Penalty Removal**\nDomains Report feature in Link Assistant automatically removes all links for specific domains with just one click. Huge time saver when doing SEO cleanups.\n\n* **Link Opportunities Report**\nSee better internal link opportunities with our smart algorithm. Easily add internal links with just a few clicks.\n\n* **Robots.txt Editor**\nManage and customize SEO robots.txt files in WordPress.\n\n* **Crawl Quota Management**\nCrawl Cleanup feature manages your search engine crawl quota and index your important content faster.\n\n* **Title and Nofollow for SEO**\nEasily add title and nofollow to external links.\n\n* **Headline Analyzer**\nAnalyze your page / posts headlines to improve CTR and SEO rankings.\n\n* **Competitor Site SEO Analysis**\nUse competitor SEO analysis to outrank them with better SEO optimization.\n\n* **SEO Code Snippets**\nIntegration with [WPCode plugin](https://wordpress.org/plugins/insert-headers-and-footers/) for SEO code snippets to further customize every aspect of your SEO.\n\n\n### WordPress SEO Integrations ###\n\n* **Google Search Console Integration**\nConnect with Google webmaster tools and Google Search Console to see SEO insights (like content rankings, keyword rankings, page speed insights, post index status, etc) directly in your WordPress dashboard.\n\n* **WooCommerce SEO**\nImproves your WooCommerce SEO rankings. Easily optimize WooCommerce product pages, product categories, and more for best eCommerce SEO results.\n\n* **Knowledge Panel SEO**\nImprove website SEO appearance by adding social media profile links for Facebook, Twitter, Wikipedia, Instagram, LinkedIn, Yelp, YouTube, and more.\n\n* **Webmaster Tool Integrations**\nConnect with all webmaster tools including Google Search Console, Bing SEO, Yandex SEO, Baidu SEO, Google Analytics, Pinterest site verification, and more.\n\n* **Social Media Integration**\nFacebook SEO, Twitter SEO, and Pinterest SEO with better website previews.\n\n* **Google AMP SEO Integration**\nImprove your mobile SEO rankings with Google AMP SEO.\n\n* **Semrush SEO integration**\nSee additional SEO keywords with Semrush SEO integration.\n\n* **Microsoft Clarity Integration**\nSee visitor interactions with heatmaps and session recordings.\n\n* **IndexNow Integration**\nInstantly notify Bing and Yandex for faster SEO indexing.\n\n* **Elementor SEO**\nBetter Elementor SEO for landing pages.\n\n* **Divi SEO**\nBetter Divi SEO for landing pages.\n\n* **Avada SEO**\nBetter Avada SEO for landing pages.\n\n* **WP Bakery SEO**\nBetter WP Bakery SEO for landing pages.\n\n* **SeedProd SEO**\nOptimize SeedProd landing pages for SEO.\n\n* **SiteOrigin SEO**\nBetter SiteOrigin SEO for landing pages.\n\n* **Open Graph Support**\nImprove SEO rankings with open graph meta data.\n\n### WordPress SEO Plugin Importer ###\n\nNot happy with your current SEO plugin? We make SEO migration easy with our point-and-click automated SEO data transfer tool. We currently support SEO migration from following SEO tools:\n\n* Yoast SEO Importer\n* Yoast SEO Premium Importer\n* RankMath SEO Importer\n* SEOPress\n\nWe also support importing SEO redirects from the following plugins:\n\n* Redirection Plugin\n* Simple 301 Redirects Importer\n* Safe Redirect Manager\n* 301 Redirects Importer\n\nAside from that, our SEO migration tool also helps you with:\n\n* Import / Export AIOSEO settings from one site to another\n* Create SEO Settings Backup\n* CSV Sitemap Import to Import additional pages to your XML Sitemaps\n\n\n**Now you can see why AIOSEO is often rated the best SEO plugin in WordPress.**\n\nGive AIOSEO a try.\n\nWant to unlock more SEO features? [Upgrade to AIOSEO Pro](https://aioseo.com/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin 'All in One SEO for WordPress').\n\n### Credits ###\n\nThis plugin is created by [Benjamin Rojas](https://benjaminrojas.net/ 'Benjamin Rojas') and [Syed Balkhi](https://syedbalkhi.com/ 'Syed Balkhi').\n\n### Branding Guideline ###\n\nAIOSEO\u0026reg; is a registered trademark of Semper Plugins LLC. When writing about the WordPress SEO plugin by AIOSEO, please use the following format.\n\n* AIOSEO (correct)\n* All in One SEO (correct)\n* AIO SEO (incorrect)\n* All in 1 SEO (incorrect)\n* AISEO (incorrect)\n\n== Changelog ==\n\n**New in Version 4.8.7**\n\n* Updated: Hardened API routes to prevent unauthorized access.\n* Updated: Added support for tracking breadcrumb setting changes in SEO Revisions.\n* Updated: Added support for WooCommerce GTIN field to Product schema.\n* Updated: Added support for .avif images to Image Sitemap and Image SEO addon.\n* Updated: Review limit for Product schema can now be modified via a new filter hook.\n* Updated: Use site URL instead of home URL for llms.txt to handle WP installs in subdirectories.\n* Updated: Remove all user meta when AIOSEO is uninstalled.\n* Updated: Improved performance of Cornerstone Content filtering.\n* Fixed: Product shipping details schema clearing cart content in rare case where logged-in user adds a product to the cart and then edits a product in the admin panel.\n* Fixed: ProfilePage schema sometimes invalid due to incorrect author URL.\n* Fixed: Hide AIOSEO custom link fields inside the Edit Link modal in WPBakery visual builder to prevent plugin conflict.\n* Fixed: AIOSEO Settings not successfully saving before post is published in WPBakery visual builder.\n* Fixed: The SEO title and description were not persisting if the post content is too large.\n* Fixed: Theme conflict with Neve where the EDD Checkout block does not show if Run Shortcodes is enabled.\n* Fixed: Breadcrumb block not updating when changing the post title.\n* Fixed: If WooCommerce brand is selected as primary category, it is now correctly used in the URL.\n* Fixed: Headline Analyzer layout breaks when entering very long headlines.\n\n**New in Version 4.8.6.1**\n\n* Updated: Prevent potential plugin conflicts due to the loading of dependencies multiple times.\n* Updated: Local SEO render options for Opening Hours are now hidden when feature is disabled.\n* Fixed: Loading spinner for SEO Revisions in sidebar menu not aligned.\n\n**New in Version 4.8.6**\n\n* New: Site Audit - Get a detailed report of SEO issues for all posts and terms on your site, discover why these issues are important and how you can fix them. 🔨\n* Fixed: Multisite subsite requests to Search Statistics server sometimes fail due to missing license.\n* Fixed: Rare PHP error when breadcrumbs cannot be determined for non-standard pages.\n\n**New in Version 4.8.5**\n\n* Updated: Author SEO (E-E-A-T) addon and Writing Assistant data are now fully removed when uninstalling the plugin.\n* Updated: Product Schema now favours WooCommerce brand field over its own custom field.\n* Updated: PHP version notices are now only shown to Administrators.\n* Fixed: Breadcrumbs taxonomy preview now correctly refreshes when user toggles between using the default settings\n* Fixed: WooCommerce Brand smart tag not correctly converted to expected value in previews.\n* Fixed: AIOSEO Details column now correctly reloads after quick-editing a post.\n* Fixed: Image URLs are no longer forcefully converted to lowercase in the Image Sitemap.\n* Fixed: Focus Keyword now saves correctly again for Divi built posts.\n* Fixed: Image SEO no longer breaks Divi built posts in rare cases.\n* Fixed: Multisite subsites no longer incorrectly inherit the \"Block AI Crawlers\" and \"Block Crawling of Internal Site Search URLs\" setting values from the main site in the network. \n* Fixed: Notifications no longer contain encoded HTML entities\n* Fixed: Default options for new redirects not localized.\n* Fixed: PHP error in rare cases when breadcrumb link is a WP_Error.\n* Fixed: PHP error due to plugin conflict with MasterStudy LMS.\n\n**New in Version 4.8.4.1**\n\n* Fixed: PHP error for multisites when AI credits don't manage to update correctly.\n\n**New in Version 4.8.4**\n\n* New: AI Content - Use our new smart AI features to automatically generate FAQs, Key Points, social media posts and more, that perfectly fit your articles. 🤖\n* New: LLMs.txt File - The new llms.txt file helps AI engines discover your site's content more easily so your content can rank in AI search results.\n* Updated: Index Status Report now fetches index data from Google on-the-fly when it is missing or expired.\n* Fixed: Image SEO addon no longer incorrectly encodes HTML in captions.\n* Fixed: PHP notice when trying to format price of products in Product schema where no price is set.\n* Fixed: Added back missing $crumb param to aioseo_breadcrumbs_template filter hook for compatibility.\n\n**New in Version 4.8.3.2**\n\n* Updated: Defined purpose of SEO title and meta description so WPML can adhere to character limits when auto-translating these fields.\n* Fixed: Breadcrumbs schema error when homepage crumb link is disabled under Breadcrumb settings.\n\n**New in Version 4.8.3.1**\n\n* New: Custom Breadcrumb Trails – Create custom breadcrumb trails for all your posts and terms to granularly control how they are displayed.\n* New: Added multilingual sitemap support for Weglot.\n* Updated: Breadcrumb schema markup is now directly tied to your visual breadcrumb trail.\n* Updated: Deprecated Bad Bot Blocker feature has now been fully removed from the plugin.\n* Updated: Image Sitemap now stores locally hosted images as relative URLs in order to facilitate seamless site migrations.\n* Updated: AIOSEO autoloaded option no longer stores SEO Analyzer results in order to improve performance.\n* Updated: Improved performance by no longer storing Writing Assistant's country and language data in user metadata.\n* Updated: Minor performance improvements for General, HTML, and RSS sitemaps by removing unnecessary fields from database queries.\n* Updated: Added additional caching to prevent sites from sending redundant concurrent requests to AIOSEO servers to check for new updates.\n* Updated: Added support to TruSEO for Elementor's Optimized DOM feature.\n* Updated: Added support to import post/term level redirects from the Rank Math SEO plugin.\n* Updated: Added support for Bluesky and Threads to Social Networks settings.\n* Updated: Unified the “Last Modified Date” checkbox design across WooCommerce Products and Classic Editor posts.\n* Updated: Improved UX for the AIOSEO Overview widget by showing TruSEO scores for all posts, regardless of whether they have a Focus Keyword.\n* Updated: “Keyword in URL” TruSEO check is now disabled when WordPress permalinks are not enabled.\n* Updated: Improved sitemap validation to only allow “inherit” post status for attachments.\n* Fixed: Dynamic backup for temporarily deregistered post types and taxonomies now works correctly again.\n* Fixed: Add redirects bulk action within the 404 Logs tab now works correctly again.\n* Fixed: Cache issue in multisite when sub-site is not network activated.\n* Fixed: Additional Pages sitemap index no longer shows the image column.\n* Fixed: SEO revision now shows the correct name for taxonomies other than category.\n* Fixed: AIOSEO popup overlap in Divi.\n* Fixed: News Sitemap title now outputs encoded versions of special characters (\u0026, \u003e, \u003c, ‘, etc.).\n* Fixed: When deleting the modified date for an additional sitemap record, it now shows as empty instead of invalid.\n* Fixed: Sitemap would sometimes throw an error if another plugin/theme added content to the output, causing it to be parsed incorrectly.\n* Fixed: TruSEO would sometimes not be able to read Elementor's post content.\n* Fixed: Tumblr URL format in the social meta and schema markup are now always the same.\n* Fixed: Book schema markup now correctly outputs the book format.\n* Fixed: Fact Check schema now correctly outputs the claim author.\n* Fixed: Google Rich Results Test link now appears again in the toolbar menu.\n* Fixed: URL input validation no longer shows an error for empty values.\n* Fixed: Improved Link Assistant's ability to handle large amounts of text by increasing the text size limit for paragraphs and optimizing how text content is processed.\n* Fixed: SEO settings now properly update when switching between pages in the Elementor editor.\n* Fixed: SEO Title and Meta Description compatibility with Astra Pro Site Builder and SureForms plugins.\n* Fixed: Link Assistant Inner post report would sometimes fail to refresh.\n* Fixed: Compatibility with LearnDash Notifications while using Redirect's Advanced 404 feature.\n* Fixed: Resolved duplicate DB queries when loading notifications for the Notification Center.\n* Fixed: URLs in the sitemap are now properly encoded for non-English languages when using WPML.\n* Fixed: TruSEO settings not being updated depending on the content.\n* Fixed: PHP deprecation warning for PHP 8.4 in Action Scheduler.\n* Fixed: PHP warning for taxonomy sitemap indexes.\n* Fixed: PHP warning when using Divi and custom schema markup.\n* Fixed: PHP notice in Author SEO (E-E-A-T) addon due to translations loaded too early.\n* Fixed: SEO Site Score widget sometimes not displaying results.\n\n**See our [changelog on aioseo.com](https://aioseo.com/changelog/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=aioseo) for previous releases.**\n\n== Frequently Asked Questions ==\n\nPlease visit our [complete AIOSEO documentation](https://aioseo.com/docs/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin) before requesting support for SEO from the AIOSEO team.\n\n= Who should use AIOSEO? =\n\nSEO is essential for all websites. AIOSEO is perfect for business owners, bloggers, marketers, designers, developers, photographers, and basically everyone else. If you want to rank higher in search, then you need to use AIOSEO WordPress SEO plugin.\n\n= Which themes does AIOSEO support? =\n\nAIOSEO works with all WordPress themes. Simply enable AIOSEO to make your WordPress theme SEO friendly.\n\n= Will AIOSEO slow down my website? =\n\nNope, AIOSEO will NOT slow down your website. We understand that speed is important for SEO, that's why our code is properly optimized for maximum performance. Remember, faster websites rank higher in search. Use AIOSEO for fast SEO improvements.\n\n= Can I use AIOSEO on client sites? =\n\nYes, you can use AIOSEO on client websites.\n\n= Are AIOSEO sitemaps better than default WordPress sitemaps? =\n\nYes, AIOSEO smart sitemaps are a lot more optimized than the default WordPress sitemaps. Once you enable AIOSEO, our XML sitemaps will override the default WordPress sitemaps, so you can improve your SEO rankings.\n\nWe also offer advanced SEO sitemaps such as News Sitemap, Video Sitemap, and RSS Sitemap.\n\nOur SEO sitemaps come with granular control such as links per sitemap, enable / disable post types or taxonomies, include / exclude specific links from sitemap, add additional non-WordPress pages to sitemaps, customize sitemap priority \u0026 frequency for each section of your site, and more.\n\nThis is why experts rate AIOSEO as the best WordPress SEO plugin.\n\n= Does AIOSEO help with SEO Verification? =\n\nYes. AIOSEO can help you with website SEO verification with various webmaster tools such as Google Search Console, Bing Webmaster Tools, Yandex, Baidu, Pinterest, and just about every other site verification you need.\n\n= Why is AIOSEO better than other SEO plugins? =\n\nThere are many WordPress SEO plugins out there. Unlike others, AIOSEO WordPress SEO plugin is always reliable. Our SEO features are results focused (no bloat), and we offer exceptional customer support.\n\nAIOSEO is the original WordPress SEO plugin, and it's trusted by over 3 million website owners.\n\n= Do I really need an XML Sitemap? =\n\n**Yes! XML Sitemaps help Google and other search engines to find all the pages of your website.**\n\nAn XML sitemap is a list of all the content on your website. The sitemap helps search engine bots to easily see all the content on your site in one place, The XML sitemap file is hidden from your human visitors, however search engines like Google can see it.\n\nWithout an XML sitemap, some of your web pages may never be included in Google search results, and won't get any traffic.\n\nXML Sitemaps also help you tell Google which pages you DON'T want included in search results. This can help your SEO to prevent keyword cannibalization and duplicate content issues.\n\nAs part of your SEO strategy, **an XML sitemap can help you to improve your domain authority and unlock more traffic from Google, Bing and other search engines**.\n\nAIOSEO can easily help you get your sitemaps listed inside Google Search Console so your content can start to get indexed today!\n\n= Does AIOSEO integrate directly with Google Search Console? =\n\nAbsolutely! Our integration with Google Search Console allows you to monitor and maintain your website's presence on Google. With our direct integration, you can easily view important information about your website, such as the number of clicks, impressions, and the average position for each keyword that your website's content appears for in Google search results. You can also track your contents page speed using Google's Page Speed Insights directly inside your WordPress dashboard.\n\nAdditionally, AIOSEO can also provide you with data on the most frequently used keywords, the most popular pages on your website, and any crawl errors or security issues that may arise. By integrating with Google Search Console, AIOSEO provides website owners with valuable insights that can help to improve SEO and overall online visibility. With this integration, you can track your site's progress over time and make data-driven decisions that will help you achieve your SEO goals.\n\n== Screenshots ==\n\n1. SEO Content Analyzer (Gutenberg)\n2. SEO Content Analyzer (Classic Editor)\n3. SEO Setup Wizard\n4. SEO Site Analysis\n5. Webmaster Tools Connect\n6. Social Media Integrations\n7. Local SEO\n8. Sitemaps\n9. Search Appearance Settings\n10. Robots.txt Editor\n11. RSS Content Control\n12. Headline Analyzer\n13. Redirect Manager\n14. Link Assistant\n\n== Upgrade Notice ==\n\n= 4.8.7 =\n\nThis update adds major improvements and bug fixes.","meta":{"last_version":"4.8.5"},"ip":"107.180.250.162","timestamp":"2025-09-09T15:51:31.127557+05:30","curl-command":"curl -X 'GET' -d '' -H 'Accept: */*' -H 'Accept-Language: en' -H 'User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Mac OS X 13_2) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Edge/113.0 Safari/537.36' 'https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/all-in-one-seo-pack/readme.txt'","matcher-status":true}
{"template":"http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/contact-form-7.yaml","template-url":"https://cloud.projectdiscovery.io/public/wordpress-contact-form-7","template-id":"wordpress-contact-form-7","template-path":"/Users/ayushi/nuclei-templates/http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/contact-form-7.yaml","info":{"name":"Contact Form 7 Detection","author":["ricardomaia"],"tags":["tech","wordpress","wp-plugin","top-100","top-200"],"reference":["https://wordpress.org/plugins/contact-form-7/"],"severity":"info","metadata":{"plugin_namespace":"contact-form-7","wpscan":"https://wpscan.com/plugin/contact-form-7"}},"extractor-name":"detected_version","type":"http","host":"hypertrends.com","port":"443","scheme":"https","url":"https://hypertrends.com","matched-at":"https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/contact-form-7/readme.txt","extracted-results":["6.1.1"],"request":"GET /wp-content/plugins/contact-form-7/readme.txt HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: hypertrends.com\r\nUser-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 14_3) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/17.2 Safari/605.1.15\r\nAccept: */*\r\nAccept-Language: en\r\nAccept-Encoding: gzip\r\n\r\n","response":"HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r\nConnection: close\r\nTransfer-Encoding: chunked\r\nContent-Security-Policy: default-src * 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval' data: blob:;\r\nContent-Type: text/plain\r\nDate: Tue, 09 Sep 2025 10:21:37 GMT\r\nEtag: W/\"6892ecf6-109d\"\r\nLast-Modified: Wed, 06 Aug 2025 05:49:42 GMT\r\nReferrer-Policy: no-referrer-when-downgrade\r\nServer: nginx\r\nStrict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000;\r\nVary: Accept-Encoding\r\nX-Content-Type-Options: nosniff\r\nX-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN\r\nX-Rocket-Nginx-Serving-Static: MISS\r\nX-Xss-Protection: 1; mode=block\r\n\r\n=== Contact Form 7 ===\r\nContributors: takayukister\r\nDonate link: https://contactform7.com/donate/\r\nTags: contact form, schema-woven validation\r\nTested up to: 6.8\r\nRequires at least: 6.7\r\nRequires PHP: 7.4\r\nStable tag: 6.1.1\r\nLicense: GPLv2 or later\r\nLicense URI: https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html\r\n\r\nJust another contact form plugin. Simple but flexible.\r\n\r\n== Description ==\r\n\r\nContact Form 7 is a plugin designed to be a practical tool for all WordPress users who embrace the philosophy of free and open source software. It employs sophisticatedly modularized architecture and its original [Schema-Woven Validation](https://contactform7.com/schema-woven-validation/) technology.\r\n\r\n= Docs and support =\r\n\r\nYou can find [docs](https://contactform7.com/docs/), [FAQ](https://contactform7.com/faq/) and more detailed information about Contact Form 7 on [contactform7.com](https://contactform7.com/). When you cannot find the answer to your question on the FAQ or in any of the documentation, check the [support forum](https://wordpress.org/support/plugin/contact-form-7/) on WordPress.org. If you cannot locate any topics that pertain to your particular issue, post a new topic for it.\r\n\r\n= Contact Form 7 needs your support =\r\n\r\nIt is hard to continue to maintain this plugin without support from users like you. There are several ways for you to [contribute to the project](https://contactform7.com/contributing/): testing, coding, translating it into your local languages, helping other users, financial donations, etc, etc. We equally welcome you regardless of the way you contribute.\r\n\r\n= Privacy notices =\r\n\r\nWith the default configuration, this plugin, in itself, does not:\r\n\r\n* track users by stealth;\r\n* write any user personal data to the database;\r\n* send any data to external servers;\r\n* use cookies.\r\n\r\nIf you activate certain features in this plugin, the contact form submitter's personal data, including their IP address, may be sent to the service provider. Thus, confirming the provider's privacy policy is recommended. These features include:\r\n\r\n* reCAPTCHA ([Google](https://policies.google.com/?hl=en))\r\n* Akismet ([Automattic](https://automattic.com/privacy/))\r\n* [Constant Contact](https://www.constantcontact.com/legal/privacy-center)\r\n* [Brevo](https://www.brevo.com/legal/privacypolicy/)\r\n* [Stripe](https://stripe.com/privacy)\r\n* Turnstile ([Cloudflare](https://www.cloudflare.com/turnstile-privacy-policy/))\r\n\r\n== Installation ==\r\n\r\n1. Upload the entire `contact-form-7` folder to the `/wp-content/plugins/` directory.\r\n1. Activate the plugin through the **Plugins** screen (**Plugins \u003e Installed Plugins**).\r\n\r\nYou will find **Contact** menu in your WordPress admin screen.\r\n\r\nFor basic usage, have a look at the [plugin's website](https://contactform7.com/).\r\n\r\n== Frequently Asked Questions ==\r\n\r\nDo you have questions or issues with Contact Form 7? Use these support channels appropriately.\r\n\r\n1. [Docs](https://contactform7.com/docs/)\r\n1. [FAQ](https://contactform7.com/faq/)\r\n1. [Support forum](https://wordpress.org/support/plugin/contact-form-7/)\r\n\r\n[Support](https://contactform7.com/support/)\r\n\r\n== Screenshots ==\r\n\r\n1. screenshot-1.png\r\n\r\n== Changelog ==\r\n\r\nFor more information, see [Releases](https://contactform7.com/category/releases/).\r\n\r\n= 6.1.1 =\r\n\r\n[https://contactform7.com/contact-form-7-611/](https://contactform7.com/contact-form-7-611/)\r\n\r\n= 6.1 =\r\n\r\n[https://contactform7.com/contact-form-7-61/](https://contactform7.com/contact-form-7-61/)\r\n\r\n= 6.0.5 =\r\n\r\n[https://contactform7.com/contact-form-7-605/](https://contactform7.com/contact-form-7-605/)\r\n\r\n= 6.0.4 =\r\n\r\n[https://contactform7.com/contact-form-7-604/](https://contactform7.com/contact-form-7-604/)\r\n\r\n= 6.0.3 =\r\n\r\n* Updates the copyright year to 2025.\r\n* Updates the \"Contact Form 7 needs your support\" message content.\r\n* Updates the Constant Contact deprecation warning.\r\n\r\n= 6.0.2 =\r\n\r\n* Removes unnecessary type declaration from nullable arguments to avoid deprecation warnings in PHP 8.4.\r\n\r\n= 6.0.1 =\r\n\r\n[https://contactform7.com/contact-form-7-601/](https://contactform7.com/contact-form-7-601/)\r\n\r\n= 6.0 =\r\n\r\n[https://contactform7.com/contact-form-7-60/](https://contactform7.com/contact-form-7-60/)\r\n\r\n== Upgrade Notice ==\r\n","meta":{"last_version":"6.1"},"ip":"107.180.250.162","timestamp":"2025-09-09T15:51:38.386053+05:30","curl-command":"curl -X 'GET' -d '' -H 'Accept: */*' -H 'Accept-Language: en' -H 'User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 14_3) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/17.2 Safari/605.1.15' 'https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/contact-form-7/readme.txt'","matcher-status":true}
{"template":"http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/duplicate-page.yaml","template-url":"https://cloud.projectdiscovery.io/public/wordpress-duplicate-page","template-id":"wordpress-duplicate-page","template-path":"/Users/ayushi/nuclei-templates/http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/duplicate-page.yaml","info":{"name":"Duplicate Page Detection","author":["ricardomaia"],"tags":["tech","wordpress","wp-plugin","top-100","top-200"],"reference":["https://wordpress.org/plugins/duplicate-page/"],"severity":"info","metadata":{"plugin_namespace":"duplicate-page","wpscan":"https://wpscan.com/plugin/duplicate-page"}},"extractor-name":"detected_version","type":"http","host":"hypertrends.com","port":"443","scheme":"https","url":"https://hypertrends.com","matched-at":"https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/duplicate-page/readme.txt","extracted-results":["4.5.5"],"request":"GET /wp-content/plugins/duplicate-page/readme.txt HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: hypertrends.com\r\nUser-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_15_4) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/9.1.2 Safari/605.1.15\r\nAccept: */*\r\nAccept-Language: en\r\nAccept-Encoding: gzip\r\n\r\n","response":"HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r\nConnection: close\r\nTransfer-Encoding: chunked\r\nContent-Security-Policy: default-src * 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval' data: blob:;\r\nContent-Type: text/plain\r\nDate: Tue, 09 Sep 2025 10:21:40 GMT\r\nEtag: W/\"68919869-1658\"\r\nLast-Modified: Tue, 05 Aug 2025 05:36:41 GMT\r\nReferrer-Policy: no-referrer-when-downgrade\r\nServer: nginx\r\nStrict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000;\r\nVary: Accept-Encoding\r\nX-Content-Type-Options: nosniff\r\nX-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN\r\nX-Rocket-Nginx-Serving-Static: MISS\r\nX-Xss-Protection: 1; mode=block\r\n\r\n=== Duplicate Page ===\nContributors: mndpsingh287\nTags: Page Duplicate, Post duplicate, duplicate custom posts, duplicate page, duplicate post, duplicate ,custom posts, post, page, duplicate this, duplicate, content duplicate, duplicate content, data duplicate, duplicate data, copy page, clone page,wordpress page duplicate, wordpress post duplicate, Copy post, wordpress page duplicator, wordpress post duplicator, Cloner, duplicate post\nRequires at least: 3.4\nTested up to: 6.8.1\nStable tag: 4.5.5\nLicense: GPLv2 or later\nLicense URI: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html\n\nDuplicate Posts, Pages and Custom Posts easily using single click\n\n== Description ==\n\nDuplicate Posts, Pages and Custom Posts easily using single click. You can duplicate your pages, posts and custom post by just one click and it will save as your selected options (draft, private, public, pending).\n\n= Key Features in Duplicate Page Pro Editions =\n\n* **User Roles:** Allow User Roles To access Duplicate Page.\n* **Post Types:** Filter to show Duplicate Page link in post types.\n* **Clone Link Location:** Option where to show clone link.\n* **Status:** Option to select Duplicate Posts Status.\n* **Redirection:** Option to Redirect after click on clone link..\n* **Clone Link Title:** Option to change Duplicate Post Link Title.\n* **Post Prefix:** Option to add Post Prefix.\n* **Post Suffix:** Option to add Post Suffix.\n* **Editor**: And Many More Filters and Features.\n\n\u003e \u003cstrong\u003e[Buy Pro Version](https://duplicatepro.com/pro/?utm_source=Wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=Website\u0026utm_campaign=Duplicate%20Page%20Pro)\u003c/strong\u003e with various features \u0026 support.\n\n\u003e \u003cstrong\u003e[Contact us](https://duplicatepro.com/contact/?utm_source=Wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=Website\u0026utm_campaign=Duplicate%20Page%20Pro)\u003c/strong\u003e for Support Only Pro Version Users.\n\n**[Upgrade to Pro Version](https://duplicatepro.com/pro/?utm_source=Wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=Website\u0026utm_campaign=Duplicate%20Page%20Pro)**\n\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Fj8BHxvebXs\u0026feature=youtu.be\n\n== Installation ==\n\n1. Upload the `duplicate-page` folder to the directory `/wp-content/plugins/`.\n2. Activate the plugin using the 'Plugins' menu in WordPress.\n\n== Frequently asked questions ==\n\n## How to use\n\n1. First Activate Plugin.\n2. Go Select to Duplicate Page settings Menu from Settings Tab and savings settings. \n1. Then Create New Post/Page or Use old.\n2. After click on duplicate this link, then duplicate post/ page will be created and saved as draft,publish,pending,private depending upon settings.\n\n== Screenshots ==\n\n1. Activate Screen \n2. Duplicate Page Settings Screen\n3. Select Option from Settings Page.\n4. Click on Duplicate This. \n5. Duplicate Post / Page will Appear. \n\n== Changelog ==\n\n= 4.5.5 (9th June, 2025) =\n* Compatible with WordPress 6.8.1\n\n\n= 4.5.4 (29th July, 2024) =\n* Compatible with WordPress 6.6.1\n\n= 4.5.3(11th Sept, 2023)\n\n* Compatible with wordpress 6.3.1\n\n= 4.5.2(4th May, 2023)\n\n* Compatible with wordpress 6.2\n\n= 4.5.1(8th Feb, 2023)\n\n* Fixes compatibility issues with event calendar plugin.\n* Minor bug fixes\n\n= 4.5(14th Dec, 2022)\n\n* Checked compatibility with wordpress v6.1.1 \n* Fixes elementor sections compatibility issue\n\n= 4.4.9(15th Jul, 2022)\n\n* Checked compatibility with wordpress v6.0.1\n\n= 4.4.8(27th Jan, 2022)\n\n* Checked compatibility with wordpress v5.9\n\n= 4.4.7(16th Dec, 2021)\n\n* Added editor role check\n\n= 4.4.6(7th Dec, 2021)\n\n* Fixed security issues.\n\n= 4.4.5(29th Sep, 2021)\n\n* Fixed the issue for content HTML displaying in the sidebar.\n\n= 4.4.4(16th Sep, 2021)\n\n* Fixed sanitization Issues as per wordpress standards.\n\n= 4.4.3(8th Sep, 2021)\n\n* Updated code sanitization process for secure data submission\n\n= 4.4.2(6th Sep, 2021)\n\n* Added sanitization as per wordpress standards.\n\n= 4.4.1(27th July, 2021) =\n\n* Checked compatibility with wordpress v5.8\n* Fixed php warnings\n\n= 4.4(18th Mar, 2021) =\n\n* Tested upto wordpress v5.7\n\n= 4.3(28th Aug, 2020) =\n\n* Tested with wordpress v5.5\n\n= 4.2(26th March, 2020) =\n\n* Fixed Translations string issue\n\n= 4.1(20th Feb, 2020) =\n\n* Fixed Translations issue\n\n= 4.0(20th Sep, 2019) =\n\n* Fixed slug duplication issue\n\n= 3.9 (6th Aug, 2019) =\n\n* Fixed some compatibility issues\n\n= 3.8 (18th July, 2019) =\n\n* Fixed compatibility issues with GT3 editor\n\n= 3.7 (18th July, 2019) =\n\n* Fixed compatibility issues with other editors\n\n= 3.6 (16th July, 2019) =\n\n* Security fixes addressed by wordpress\n\n= 3.5 (2nd Apr, 2019) =\n\n* Gutenberg and advanced custom fields compatibility \n\n= 3.4 (1st Apr, 2019) =\n\n* Security issues fixes addressed by Securi\n\n= 3.3 (14th March, 2019) =\n\n* Compatible with WordPress 5.1.1\n\n= 3.2 (25th Dec, 2018) =\n\n* Gutenberg Compatible\n\n= 3.1 (5th Dec, 2018) =\n\n* removed nag\n\n= 3.0 (3rd Dec, 2018) =\n\n* German Formal lang added\n\n= 2.9 (16th Nov, 2018) =\n\n* Minor bug fixes\n\n= 2.8 (20th Oct, 2018) =\n\n* Compatible with php 7.3 and wordpress 5.0\n\n= 2.7 (28th July, 2018) =\n\n* removed useless adsense code\n\n= 2.6 (24th March, 2018) =\n\n* Added signup popup and minor fixes.\n\n= 2.5 (5th Feb, 2018) =\n\n* Translations issue resolve.\n\n= 2.4 (29th Nov, 2017) =\n\n* Duplicate Page appends original post name issue fixed.\n\n= 2.3 (27st april, 2017) =\n\n* Minor Fixes\n\n= 2.2 (28th Jan, 2017) =\n\n* Strings Translations\n\n= 2.1 (25th Aug, 2016) =\n\n* New Text field added in settings page for duplicate post title suffix to remove confusion of currently duplicate page.\n\n= 1.4 (18th Jun, 2016) =\n\n* New Features added\n\n= 1.3 (23th May, 2016) =\n\n* New Features added\n\n= 1.2 (05th May, 2016) =\n\n* Duplicate Page Settings Menu Added.\n\n= 1.1 (04th May ,2016) =\n\n* fix some Bug in 1.0\n\n== Other Notes ==\n\n== Minimum requirements for Duplicate Page ==\n*   Wordpress 3.3+\n*   PHP 5.x\n*   MySQL 5.x\n","meta":{"last_version":"4.5.5"},"ip":"107.180.250.162","timestamp":"2025-09-09T15:51:40.373549+05:30","curl-command":"curl -X 'GET' -d '' -H 'Accept: */*' -H 'Accept-Language: en' -H 'User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_15_4) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/9.1.2 Safari/605.1.15' 'https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/duplicate-page/readme.txt'","matcher-status":true}
{"template":"http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/google-analytics-dashboard-for-wp.yaml","template-url":"https://cloud.projectdiscovery.io/public/wordpress-google-analytics-dashboard-for-wp","template-id":"wordpress-google-analytics-dashboard-for-wp","template-path":"/Users/ayushi/nuclei-templates/http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/google-analytics-dashboard-for-wp.yaml","info":{"name":"ExactMetrics – Google Analytics Dashboard for WordPress (Website Stats Plugin) Detection","author":["ricardomaia"],"tags":["tech","wordpress","wp-plugin","top-200"],"reference":["https://wordpress.org/plugins/google-analytics-dashboard-for-wp/"],"severity":"info","metadata":{"wpscan":"https://wpscan.com/plugin/google-analytics-dashboard-for-wp","plugin_namespace":"google-analytics-dashboard-for-wp"}},"extractor-name":"detected_version","type":"http","host":"hypertrends.com","port":"443","scheme":"https","url":"https://hypertrends.com","matched-at":"https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/google-analytics-dashboard-for-wp/readme.txt","extracted-results":["8.7.4"],"request":"GET /wp-content/plugins/google-analytics-dashboard-for-wp/readme.txt HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: hypertrends.com\r\nUser-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_15_7) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/15.0 Safari/605.1.15\r\nAccept: */*\r\nAccept-Language: en\r\nAccept-Encoding: gzip\r\n\r\n","response":"HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r\nConnection: close\r\nTransfer-Encoding: chunked\r\nContent-Security-Policy: default-src * 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval' data: blob:;\r\nContent-Type: text/plain\r\nDate: Tue, 09 Sep 2025 10:21:43 GMT\r\nEtag: W/\"689d9432-5085\"\r\nLast-Modified: Thu, 14 Aug 2025 07:45:54 GMT\r\nReferrer-Policy: no-referrer-when-downgrade\r\nServer: nginx\r\nStrict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000;\r\nVary: Accept-Encoding\r\nX-Content-Type-Options: nosniff\r\nX-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN\r\nX-Rocket-Nginx-Serving-Static: MISS\r\nX-Xss-Protection: 1; mode=block\r\n\r\n﻿=== ExactMetrics - Google Analytics Dashboard for WordPress (Website Stats Plugin) ===\nContributors: chriscct7, smub\nDonate link: http://www.wpbeginner.com/wpbeginner-needs-your-help/\nTags: analytics,google analytics,google analytics dashboard,google analytics plugin,website stats\nRequires at least: 5.6.0\nTested up to: 6.8.1\nStable tag: 8.7.4\nRequires PHP: 7.2\nLicense: GPL v3\n\nConnects Google Analytics with your WordPress site. Displays stats to help you understand your users and site content on a whole new level!\n\n== Description ==\nThe [ExactMetrics](https://exactmetrics.com?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteversion) Google Analytics for WordPress plugin helps you properly setup all the powerful Google Analytics tracking features without writing any code or hiring a developer.\n\nMore importantly, over 1 million users love ExactMetrics because of our signature Google Analytics Dashboard that helps you view key Google Analytics stats right inside your WordPress dashboard.\n\nOur goal at ExactMetrics is to help you grow your business faster with data-driven decisions.\n\nThis is why we built the most comprehensive Google Analytics plugin for WordPress, so you can setup all the powerful tracking features that website owners otherwise miss out on when simply pasting the analytics code in WordPress.\n\nWe go beyond the simple google analytics script and add the advanced event tracking, so you can see all important user behavior in WordPress with just a few clicks (without hiring a developer).\n\nExactMetrics works automatically Google Analytics 4 (GA4) so that you can your website can be prepared for the future of Google Analytics.\n\nBasically, we made the same advanced Google analytics setup that big enterprise companies used to pay thousands of dollars for, available to every small business owner without the high costs.\n\nThis is why even the large companies like Microsoft, Quickbooks, Pizza Hut, Delta, Pepsi, Coldwell Bankers, and many others are using ExactMetrics to properly setup Google Analytics and see the custom analytics reports in WordPress.\n\n\u003e \u003cstrong\u003eExactMetrics Pro\u003c/strong\u003e\u003cbr /\u003e\n\u003e This plugin is the lite version of ExactMetrics Pro plugin that comes with all the Google analytics tracking features you will ever need including events tracking, ecommerce tracking, custom dimensions tracking, form conversion tracking, affiliate link tracking, and tons more. [click here to purchase the best premium Google Analytics plugin for WordPress Now!](https://exactmetrics.com/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteversion). \nWe are on a mission to level the playing field for small businesses, so they can grow their business faster with data-driven decisions.\n\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4GZ-IgZssao\n\nSee what one business owner is saying about ExactMetrics:\n\n\u003e This is absolutely, positively, one of the TOP plugins to install on your WP site. There is no better way to quickly gauge traffic for spikes, surges, and consistency. I installed this on over a dozen WordPress installations and counting, thank you for an outstanding app!\u003cbr\u003e\n\u003e Daniel Monaghan\n\n= Custom Google Analytics Reports =\n\n* Overview Report - See the most important Google Analytics data in an easy to understand report, right inside your WordPress dashboard (Save 5 minutes each day).\n* Publisher Report - See exactly which content gets the most visit, which affiliate links are performing the best, what new partnership opportunities you should pursue, and more.\n* Ecommerce Report - See all your important online store metrics in one place such as total revenue, conversion rate, average order value, top products, top conversion sources, and more.\n* Search Console Report - See how well your website is ranking in Google, so you can optimize your SEO to grow your traffic.\n* Forms Report - See your conversion stats for various contact forms and lead forms on your website to improve conversions.\n* Custom Dimensions Report - See useful stats like most popular authors, best publication times, popular categories, tags, Yoast focus keywords, SEO score, etc.\n* Real Time Report - see who is online on your website in real-time, right inside your WordPress dashboard.\n* Customizable Google Analytics Dashboard Widget - Our dashboard widget allows you to have quick access to your most important stats at the moment you login to your WordPress dashboard.\n* Page Insights in Admin Bar - Easily view analytics for each individual page and post from the ExactMetrics menu in WordPress admin bar while browsing your website.\n* Landing Page Report - Shows you which pages your visitors land, without needing to log into Google Analytics.\n* Source and Medium Report - gives you an easy view of Google Analytics UTM tracking.\n* Technology Report - See which devices and browsers use your website the most.\n* Campaign Report - Shows you Google Analytics UTM tracking and key metrics.\n* Pages Report - See which pages are most poplular on your website.\n* Coupon Report - See which coupons are used most on your website.\n* Funnel Report - See how people buy from your store.\n* Email Summaries - Get the most important metrics delivered to you and/or your client's email inboxes weekly with our brandable Email Summaries, allowing you to keep up to date on your website's Google Analytics results even without needing to login to the Google Analytics dashboard.\n* PDF Exports - Easily take your ExactMetrics reports with you or send them to clients or colleagues by exporting all ExactMetrics reports as a brandable PDF.\n* Site Speed Report - helps you improve your website’s performance by displaying key metrics and actionable tips to improve those based on WordPress-specific solutions.\n* Popular Posts - Display popular posts in your post content automatically or using Gutenberg blocks and shortcodes. Show off your top posts to your visitors using sidebar widgets, Gutenberg blocks or shortcodes\n\n= Integrations =\n\n* WooCommerce Google Analytics - Automatically setup Google analytics enhanced eCommerce tracking for WooCommerce and WooCommerce analytics.\n* Easy Digital Downloads Google Analytics - Automatically setup Google analytics enhanced eCommerce tracking for EDD.\n* MemberPress Google Analytics - Automatically setup Google analytics enhanced eCommerce tracking for MemberPress.\n* WPForms Google Analytics - Automatically setup form conversion tracking for WPForms.\n* Formidable Forms Google Analytics - Automatically setup form conversion tracking for Formidable Forms.\n* Gravity Forms Google Analytics - Automatically setup form conversion tracking for Gravity Forms.\n* YouTube Google Analytics - Automatically track video starts, stops, and watch progression of video plays of your YouTube videos.\n* Vimeo Google Analytics - Automatically track video starts, stops, and watch progression of video plays of your Vimeo videos.\n* HTML5 Video Google Analytics - Automatically track video starts, stops, and watch progression of video plays of your Vimeo videos.\n* Exclude from Tracking Google Analytics - Disable loading of Google Analytics tracking on specific pages or posts.\n* Contact Form 7 Google Analytics - Automatically setup form conversion tracking for Contact Form 7.\n* Yoast Google Analytics - Automatically setup SEO score tracking for Yoast SEO with custom dimensions.\n* Pretty Links Google Analytics - Automatically setup affiliate link tracking for Pretty Links.\n* Thirsty Affiliates Google Analytics - Automatically setup affiliate link tracking for Thirsty Affiliates.\n* AffiliateWP Google Analytics - Automatically setup affiliate link tracking for AffiliateWP.\n* User Journey Orders - See which pages visit before becoming customers with WooCommerce, Easy Digital Downloads, MemberPress, LifterLMS, Restrict Content Pro, or GiveWP.\n* User Feedback - Automatically track events and impressions with the popular User Feedback plugin.\n* Google AdSense + Google Analytics - Automatically setup banner ads tracking for Google AdSense.\n* Google Optimize + Google Analytics - Easily enable A/B testing in WordPress with Google Optimize and Google Analytics.\n\nAfter reading this comprehensive feature list, you can probably imagine why over 1 million websites use ExactMetrics as their preferred Google Analytics plugin for WordPress.\n\nGive ExactMetrics a try.\n\n\u003e Love this plugin! It’s got powerful customization options, it’s easy to use, there’s good documentation, and if all that’s not enough, ExactMetrics is quick to provide support. Thanks for this wonderful plugin!\u003cbr\u003e\n\u003e Julie Dupuis\n\n= Credits =\n\nThis plugin is created by \u003ca href=\"https://twitter.com/chriscct7\" rel=\"friend\" title=\"Chris Christoff\"\u003eChris Christoff\u003c/a\u003e and \u003ca href=\"https://syedbalkhi.com/\" rel=\"friend\" title=\"Syed Balkhi\"\u003eSyed Balkhi\u003c/a\u003e with sponsorship from \u003ca href=\"http://www.wpbeginner.com/\" rel=\"friend\" title=\"WPBeginner\"\u003eWPBeginner\u003c/a\u003e.\n\n== Frequently Asked Questions ==\n\n= Does ExactMetrics support Google Analytics v4 (GAv4) =\n\nYes, we fully support Google Analytics v4 (GAv4) properties .\n\n= Where can I find lite support? =\n\nLite support is provided exclusively [on our website](https://www.exactmetrics.com/lite-support).\n\n= How can I suggest a new feature, contribute or report a bug? =\n\nYou can submit pull requests, feature requests and bug reports on [our GitHub repository](https://github.com/awesomemotive/exactmetrics-repo).\n\n= Documentation, Tutorials and FAQ =\n\nFor documentation, tutorials, FAQ and videos check out: [Google Analytics Dashboard for WP by ExactMetrics documentation](https://www.exactmetrics.com/docs/).\n\n== Screenshots ==\n\n1. Google Analytics Dashboard for WP Dashboard Widget (shown in small mode, can be configured to full size or hidden; can also customize reports shown)\n2. Google Analytics Dashboard for WP Overview Report\n3. Google Analytics Dashboard for WP eCommerce Report\n4. Google Analytics Dashboard for WP Settings Page (super simple to use and configure as needed)\n\n== Localization ==\n\nYou can translate Google Analytics Dashboard for WP by ExactMetrics on [translate.wordpress.org](https://translate.wordpress.org/projects/wp-plugins/google-analytics-dashboard-for-wp).\n\n== Installation ==\n\n1. Install Google Analytics Dashboard for WordPress by ExactMetrics either via the WordPress.org plugin repository or by uploading the files to your server. (See instructions on \u003ca href=\"http://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/step-by-step-guide-to-install-a-wordpress-plugin-for-beginners/\" rel=\"friend\"\u003ehow to install a WordPress plugin\u003c/a\u003e)\n2. Activate Google Analytics for WordPress by ExactMetrics.\n3. Navigate to the Insights tab in your WordPress admin menu and configure the plugin.\n4. Want more features? \u003ca href=\"https://www.exactmetrics.com/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteversion\"\u003ePurchase ExactMetrics Pro\u003c/a\u003e!\n\n== Changelog ==\n8.7.4: August 7, 2025\n- Fixed: Minor updates and bug fixes\n\n8.7.3: August 6, 2025\n- Fixed: Minor updates and bug fixes\n\n8.7.1: July 22, 2025\n- Fixed: Minor updates and bug fixes\n\n8.7.0: July 22, 2025\n- Updates: Misc bug fixes and updates\n\n= 8.6.2: June 26, 2025 =\n- Fixed: Minor updates and bug fixes\n\n= 8.6.1: June 12, 2025 =\n- Fixed: Minor updates and bug fixes\n\n= 8.6.0: June 11, 2025 =\n- Enhancement: Updated Forms Report to include more metrics and stats\n- Fixed: Minor updates and bug fixes\n\n= 8.5.3: May 14, 2025 =\n- Fixed: Minor updates and bug fixes\n\n= 8.5.0: April 29, 2025 =\n- New: Support for Pinterest PPC conversion tracking\n- Fixed: Minor updates and bug fixes\n\n= 8.4.1: March 27, 2025 =\n- Fixed: Minor updates and bug fixes\n\n= 8.4.0: March 24, 2025 =\n- New: Support for TikTok PPC conversion tracking\n- Enhancement: Adding translatable strings throughout our plugin. More to come!\n- Enhancement: Our monthly statistics emails got a fresh facelift\n- Enhancement: Our plugin code now follows WP VIP standards\n\n= 8.3.1: January 16, 2025 =\n- Fixed: Minor updates and bug fixes\n\n= 8.3.0: January 15, 2025 =\n- New: Overview Report Metrics\n- New: Cart Abandonment Report\n- Fixed: Minor updates and bug fixes\n\n= 8.2.4: December 13, 2024 =\n- Fixed: Minor updates and bug fixes\n\n= 8.2.3: December 10, 2024 =\n- Fixed: Minor updates and bug fixes\n\n= 8.2.2: November 12, 2024 =\n- New: Our Year In Review report is here. This report will automatically show up starting on January 1\n- Update: We'll now check to ensure your website time zone matches Google Analytics\n\n= 8.2.1: October 31, 2024 =\n- Fixed: Fixed a bug in the Headline Analyzer tool causing errors in WordPress versions lower than 6.6\n\n= 8.2.0: October 22, 2024 =\n- New: Country and region report to see where and how your visitors find your website\n- New: Advanced tracking options for users of Google Tag Manager\n- New: SEO \u0026 RankMath Integrations with our Custom Dimensions addon\n- Fixed: Minor updates and bug fixes\n\n= 8.1.0: September 19, 2024 =\n- New: Stats at a Glance report shows you information about your website in a whole new way.\n- New: Google Ads Enhanced Conversion Support \u0026 Meta Conversion API Support (CAPI) for PPC Campaigns\n- Enhanced: Updated Google Analytics tag loading order to help increase Core Web Vital scores. \n- Fixed: Lots of minor updates and bug fixes.\n\n= 8.0.1: August 21, 2024 =\n- Fix: We resolved an issue in the Onboarding Recommended Addons page.\n\n= 8.0.0: July 25, 2024 =\n- New: Conversations AI - chat with your website's analytics without any need to read reports\n- New: AI Insights - Get automated insights about your website with the power of AI\n- Fix: We fixed a PHP error occurring inside our Forms reports \n\n= 7.28.0: July 08, 2024 =\n-New: Date Comparisons - Now you can easily compare your stats on any chart or graph.\n-Enhancement: We updated the look and feel of things to make it a bit easier to navigate.\n-Enhancement: We updated tooltips to make it easier to understand some options.\n\n= 7.27.0: May 29, 2024 =\n- New: Site Notes Automations addon. \n- Fix: We fixed an issue related to eCommerce abandoned checkouts.\n- Fix: We fixed an issue related to UserJourney report pages.\n- Enhancement: We improved the notification system.\n\n= 7.26.0: April 15, 2024 =\n- New: Added new Exceptions Report\n- New: Added new Google Consent support.\n- Enhancement: We improved the country list in the Funnel Report.\n- Fix: We solved an issue occurring in the plugin onboarding process.\n- Fix: We solved a style issue related to abandoned checkouts in reports.\n\n= 7.25.0: March 05, 2024 =\n- Enhancement: Improved Site Speed report.\n- Fix: We solved an issue related to flag icons.\n- Fix: We solved some JavaScript errors occurring with third-party plugins.\n\n= 7.24.4: February 19, 2024 =\n- Fix: We solved an issue occurring with CloudFlare's CDN.\n\n= 7.24.3: February 16, 2024 =\n- Fix: We solved an issue occurring with some JavaScript files being prevented from loading.\n\n= 7.24.2: February 15, 2024 =\n- Fix: We solved a JavaScript issue occurring with third-party plugins.\n\n= 7.24.1: February 12, 2024 =\n- Fix: We solved an issue occurring with WPBakery.\n\n= 7.24.0: February 08, 2024 =\n- New: Site Insights Gutenberg block. Easily share website stats with your visitors.\n- New: PrivacyGuard Feature - Proactively block PII (Personally Identifiable Information) from ever making it to Google Analytics\n- New: EEA Checker tool for Google Ads / Analytics Requirements\n- Fix: We solved an issue occurring in the Weekly/Monthly Email reports.\n- Fix: We solved an issue occurring with Popular Posts.\n- Fix: We solved an issue occurring with Tracking Video Title in Divi theme.\n\n= 7.23.1: December 18, 2023 =\n- Fix: We fixed an issue related to All in One SEO plugin.\n\n= 7.23.0: December 14, 2023 =\n- New: Our Year In Review report is here. This report will automatically show up starting in January 1 until Jan 14 2024.\n- Fix: We fixed an issue occurring with Site Notes.\n- Fix: We fixed minor issues in the Gutenberg blocks.\n- Fix: We added support for WooCommerce custom order status.\n\n= 7.22.0: November 29, 2023 =\n- Enhancement: Improved Social Media report.\n- Fix: We fixed the View More link in the Email Summaries.\n- Fix: We fixed a Vue warning in Site Notes.\n- Fix: We fixed the sporadic Error 429 from Google Analytics API.\n- Fix: We fixed a duplicate error message in the Setup Checklist.\n\n= 7.21.0: November 13, 2023 =\n- New: Social Media report.\n- New: Exclude query parameters from GA4 data stream.\n- Enhancement: Improved compatibility towards WordPress 6.4.1.\n- Fix: We fixed an issue that occurred with Pretty Links.\n\n= 7.20.2: November 01, 2023 =\n- Fix: Popular posts, we fixed a bug occurring in curated popular posts.\n\n= 7.20.1: October 09, 2023 =\n- Fix: We updated our lite emails to render better inside multiple mail clients. We also changed the emails to send out monthly instead of weekly. To disable emails go to Settings -\u003e Advanced - Toggle the \"Enable Email Summaries.\n\n= 7.20: October 02, 2023 =\n- New: Google Analytics and eCommerce support for WishList Member\n- New: Google Analytics and eCommerce support for WPCharitable \n- Enhanced: Improved support for PHP 8.2.\n- Enhanced: Improved Site Health compatibility.\n- Fixed: Restrict Content Pro, we fixed the refund event in GoogleAnalytics when order status is failed or abandoned.\n- Fixed: We fixed some minor bugs related to notifications. \n- Fixed: Popular posts, we fixed a bug occurring in curated popular posts.\n- Fixed: We fixed some minor bugs related to User Journey.\n\n= 7.19: August 22, 2023 =\n- New: Ecommerce funnel report for WooCommerce and Easy Digital Downloads.\n- New: Setup checklist to get up and running faster\n- Enhanced: Improved support for PHP 8.2.\n- Fixed: We fixed a bug that occurred with Yoast SEO Scores.\n- Fixed: We fixed a bug in the Pretty Links integration.\n\n= 7.18.1: July 24, 2023 =\n- Update: We improved the GoogleAnalytics 4 reports.\n\n= 7.18: July 20, 2023 =\n- New: Added 6 Completely New Pro Reports to bring the power of Google Analytics into your WordPress dashboard.\n- Fixed: We fixed an issue that prevented tracking with WPML.\n- Fixed: We fixed an issue that prevented tracking the User Journey with MemberPress.\n\n= 7.17: June 29, 2023 =\n- Updated: Removed dual tracking panel and limit reporting to GA4 only properties.\n- Fixed: We fixed a bug in the WPForms integration.\n- Fixed: We fixed a bug in the AffiliateWP integration.\n\n= 7.16: June 15, 2023 =\n- New: User Journey report now available! See all of your website's purchases in one screen. \n- Update: We updated the Popular Posts to support themes that allow widgets. \n- Fixed: We fixed some layout issues in exported PDF reports.\n- Fixed: We fixed the deprecated YOAST function WPSEO_Utils::translate_score().\n- Fixed: We fixed a bug occurring while downloading files having the file download tracking enabled.\n\n= 7.15.3: May 08, 2023 =\n- Enhancement: We updated and tweaked some settings with our Site Notes feature.\n\n= 7.15.2: May 03, 2023 =\n- New: Site Notes allows you to record important website events right inside your WordPress dashboard.\n- Update: Fix EDD integration.\n- Update: Mobile screen optimizations.\n\n= 7.15.1: May 02, 2023 =\n- Fix: Fixed a critical error.\n\n= 7.15: May 02, 2023 =\n- New: Site Notes allows you to record important website events right inside your WordPress dashboard.\n- Update: Fix EDD integration.\n- Update: Mobile screen optimizations.\n\n= 7.14.2: Apr 11, 2023 =\n- Fixed: We fixed a PHP warning error and added additional security hardening.\n\n= 7.14.1: Mar 29, 2023 =\n- Fixed: We fixed the Addons page UI.\n\n= 7.14.0: Mar 27, 2023 =\n- New: Our New PPC Tracking addon allows you to effortlessly track sales inside Google Ads, Microsoft Ads, and Meta.\n- Enhancement: We updated and tweaked lots elements to make our dashboard easier to use\n\n= 7.13.1: Mar 21, 2023 =\n- Fixed: We fixed the admin menu text.\n\n= 7.13.0: Mar 13, 2023 =\n- Enhancement: We enhanced the notifications user experience.\n- Fixed: We fixed the PDF reports header.\n- Update: We applied additional security hardening.\n\n= 7.12.1: Jan 12, 2023 =\n- Fix: We made updates to authentication\n\n= 7.12.0: Jan 12, 2023 =\n- Enhancement: We updated and fixed some UI/UX elements to make ExactMetrics easier to use\n- Enhancement: We optimized our Javascript code to work better with minification plugins\n- Enhancement: We optimized our Javascript code to work better with minification plugins\n- Enhancement: We optimized the Javascript code to work nicely with minification plugins\n- Enhancement: We optimized our code to work better with PHP8\n\n**See our [changelog](https://www.exactmetrics.com/changelog/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteversion) for previous releases.**","meta":{"last_version":"8.7.1"},"ip":"107.180.250.162","timestamp":"2025-09-09T15:51:43.993338+05:30","curl-command":"curl -X 'GET' -d '' -H 'Accept: */*' -H 'Accept-Language: en' -H 'User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_15_7) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/15.0 Safari/605.1.15' 'https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/google-analytics-dashboard-for-wp/readme.txt'","matcher-status":true}
{"template":"http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/gutenberg.yaml","template-url":"https://cloud.projectdiscovery.io/public/wordpress-gutenberg","template-id":"wordpress-gutenberg","template-path":"/Users/ayushi/nuclei-templates/http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/gutenberg.yaml","info":{"name":"Gutenberg Detection","author":["ricardomaia"],"tags":["tech","wordpress","wp-plugin","top-200"],"reference":["https://wordpress.org/plugins/gutenberg/"],"severity":"info","metadata":{"plugin_namespace":"gutenberg","wpscan":"https://wpscan.com/plugin/gutenberg"}},"extractor-name":"detected_version","type":"http","host":"hypertrends.com","port":"443","scheme":"https","url":"https://hypertrends.com","matched-at":"https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/gutenberg/readme.txt","extracted-results":["21.5.0"],"request":"GET /wp-content/plugins/gutenberg/readme.txt HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: hypertrends.com\r\nUser-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/90.0.4430.93 Safari/537.36\r\nAccept: */*\r\nAccept-Language: en\r\nAccept-Encoding: gzip\r\n\r\n","response":"HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r\nConnection: close\r\nTransfer-Encoding: chunked\r\nContent-Security-Policy: default-src * 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval' data: blob:;\r\nContent-Type: text/plain\r\nDate: Tue, 09 Sep 2025 10:21:44 GMT\r\nEtag: W/\"68b012cb-1ea4\"\r\nLast-Modified: Thu, 28 Aug 2025 08:26:51 GMT\r\nReferrer-Policy: no-referrer-when-downgrade\r\nServer: nginx\r\nStrict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000;\r\nVary: Accept-Encoding\r\nX-Content-Type-Options: nosniff\r\nX-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN\r\nX-Rocket-Nginx-Serving-Static: MISS\r\nX-Xss-Protection: 1; mode=block\r\n\r\n=== Gutenberg ===\nContributors: matveb, joen, karmatosed\nTested up to: 6.8\nStable tag: 21.5.0\nLicense: GPLv2 or later\nLicense URI: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html\n\nThe Gutenberg plugin adds editing, customization, and site building to WordPress. Use it to test beta features before their official release.\n\n== Description ==\n\n“Gutenberg” is a codename for a whole new paradigm for creating with WordPress, that aims to revolutionize the entire publishing experience as much as \u003ca href=\"https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Johannes_Gutenberg\"\u003eJohannes Gutenberg\u003c/a\u003e did the printed word. The project is \u003ca href=\"https://wordpress.org/about/roadmap/\"\u003efollowing a four-phase process\u003c/a\u003e that will touch major pieces of WordPress — Editing, Customization, Collaboration, and Multilingual.\n\nFollowing the introduction of post block editing in December 2018, Gutenberg later introduced full site editing (FSE) in 2021, \u003ca href=\"https://wordpress.org/news/2022/01/josephine/\"\u003ewhich shipped with WordPress 5.9 in early 2022\u003c/a\u003e.\n\n### What Does Gutenberg Do?\n\nGutenberg is WordPress's “block editor”, and introduces a modular approach to modifying your entire site. Edit individual content blocks on posts or pages. Add and adjust widgets. Even design your site headers, footers, and navigation with full site editing support.\n\nEach piece of content in the editor, from a paragraph to an image gallery to a headline, is its own block. And just like physical blocks, WordPress blocks can be added, arranged, and rearranged, allowing users to create media-rich content and site layouts in a visually intuitive way — and without workarounds like shortcodes or custom HTML and PHP.\n\nWe’re always hard at work refining the experience, creating more and better blocks, and laying the groundwork for future phases of work. Each WordPress release includes stable features from the Gutenberg plugin, so you don’t need to install the plugin to benefit from the work being done here.\n\n### Early Access\n\nAre you a tech-savvy early adopter who likes testing bleeding-edge and experimental features, and isn’t afraid to tinker with features that are still in active development? If so, this beta plugin gives you access to the latest Gutenberg features for block and full site editing, as well as a peek into what’s to come.\n\n### Contributors Wanted\n\nFor the adventurous and tech-savvy, the Gutenberg plugin gives you the latest and greatest feature set, so you can join us in testing and developing bleeding-edge features, playing around with blocks, and maybe \u003ca href=\"https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/contributors/\"\u003eget inspired to contribute\u003c/a\u003e or \u003ca href=\"https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/how-to-guides/block-tutorial/\"\u003ebuild your own blocks\u003c/a\u003e.\n\n### Discover More\n\n- **User Documentation:** Review the \u003ca href=\"https://wordpress.org/documentation/article/wordpress-block-editor/\"\u003eWordPress Editor documentation\u003c/a\u003e for detailed instructions on using the editor as an author to create posts, pages, and more.\n\n- **Developer Documentation:** Explore the \u003ca href=\"https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/\"\u003eDeveloper Documentation\u003c/a\u003e for extensive tutorials, documentation, and API references on how to extend the editor.\n\n- **Contributors:** Gutenberg is an open-source project and welcomes all contributors from code to design, from documentation to triage. See the \u003ca href=\"https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/contributors/\"\u003eContributor's Handbook\u003c/a\u003e for all the details on how you can help.\n\nThe development hub for the Gutenberg project can be found at \u003ca href=\"https://github.com/wordpress/gutenberg\"\u003ehttps://github.com/wordpress/gutenberg\u003c/a\u003e. Discussions for the project are on the \u003ca href=\"https://make.wordpress.org/core/\"\u003eMake Core Blog\u003c/a\u003e and in the #core-editor channel in Slack, \u003ca href=\"https://make.wordpress.org/core/tag/core-editor-agenda/\"\u003eincluding weekly meetings\u003c/a\u003e. If you don’t have a Slack account, you can \u003ca href=\"https://make.wordpress.org/chat/\"\u003esign up here\u003c/a\u003e.\n\n== Frequently Asked Questions ==\n\n= How can I send feedback or get help with a bug? =\n\nThe best place to report bugs, feature suggestions, or any other feedback is at \u003ca href=\"https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/issues\"\u003ethe Gutenberg GitHub issues page\u003c/a\u003e. Before submitting a new issue, please search the existing issues to check if someone else has reported the same feedback.\n\nWhile we try to triage issues reported here on the plugin forum, you’ll get a faster response (and reduce duplication of effort) by keeping feedback centralized in GitHub.\n\n= Where can I report security bugs? =\n\nThe Gutenberg team and WordPress community take security bugs seriously. We appreciate your efforts to responsibly disclose your findings, and will make every effort to acknowledge your contributions.\n\nTo report a security issue, please visit the [WordPress HackerOne](https://hackerone.com/wordpress) program.\n\n= Do I have to use the Gutenberg plugin to get access to these features? =\n\nNot necessarily. Each version of WordPress after 5.0 has included features from the Gutenberg plugin, which are known collectively as the \u003ca href=\"https://wordpress.org/documentation/article/wordpress-block-editor/\"\u003eWordPress Editor\u003c/a\u003e. You are likely already benefiting from stable features!\n\nBut if you want cutting edge beta features, including more experimental items, you will need to use the plugin. You can \u003ca href=\"https://wordpress.org/news/2021/04/become-an-early-adopter-with-the-gutenberg-plugin/\"\u003eread more here\u003c/a\u003e to help decide whether the plugin is right for you.\n\n= Where can I see which Gutenberg plugin versions are included in each WordPress release? =\n\nView the \u003ca href=\"https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/principles/versions-in-wordpress/\"\u003eVersions in WordPress\u003c/a\u003e document to get a table showing which Gutenberg plugin version is included in each WordPress release.\n\n= What’s next for the project? =\n\nThe four phases of the project are Editing, Customization, Collaboration, and Multilingual. You can hear more about the project and phases from Matt in his State of the Word talks for \u003ca href=\"https://ma.tt/2021/12/state-of-the-word-in-person/\"\u003e2021\u003c/a\u003e, \u003ca href=\"https://ma.tt/2020/12/sotw-2020/\"\u003e2020\u003c/a\u003e, \u003ca href=\"https://ma.tt/2019/11/state-of-the-word-2019/\"\u003e2019\u003c/a\u003e, and \u003ca href=\"https://ma.tt/2018/12/state-of-the-word-2018/\"\u003e2018\u003c/a\u003e. Additionally, you can follow the \u003ca href=\"https://make.wordpress.org/core/tag/gutenberg-new/\"\u003ebiweekly release notes\u003c/a\u003e and \u003ca href=\"https://make.wordpress.org/core/tag/gutenberg-next/\"\u003emonthly project plan updates\u003c/a\u003e on the \u003ca href=\"https://make.wordpress.org/core/?s=gutenberg\"\u003eMake WordPress Core blog\u003c/a\u003e for more up to date information about what’s happening now.\n\n\n= Where can I read more about Gutenberg? =\n\n- \u003ca href=\"http://matiasventura.com/post/gutenberg-or-the-ship-of-theseus/\"\u003eGutenberg, or the Ship of Theseus\u003c/a\u003e, with examples of what Gutenberg might do in the future\n- \u003ca href=\"https://make.wordpress.org/core/2017/01/17/editor-technical-overview/\"\u003eEditor Technical Overview\u003c/a\u003e\n- \u003ca href=\"https://wordpress.org/gutenberg/handbook/reference/design-principles/\"\u003eDesign Principles and block design best practices\u003c/a\u003e\n- \u003ca href=\"https://github.com/Automattic/wp-post-grammar\"\u003eWP Post Grammar Parser\u003c/a\u003e\n- \u003ca href=\"https://make.wordpress.org/core/tag/gutenberg/\"\u003eDevelopment updates on make.wordpress.org\u003c/a\u003e\n- \u003ca href=\"https://wordpress.org/gutenberg/handbook/\"\u003eDocumentation: Creating Blocks, Reference, and Guidelines\u003c/a\u003e\n- \u003ca href=\"https://wordpress.org/gutenberg/handbook/reference/faq/\"\u003eAdditional frequently asked questions\u003c/a\u003e\n\n== Changelog ==\n\nTo read the changelog for the latest Gutenberg release, please navigate to the \u003ca href=\"https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/releases/latest\"\u003erelease page\u003c/a\u003e.\n","meta":{"last_version":"21.2.0"},"ip":"107.180.250.162","timestamp":"2025-09-09T15:51:45.029875+05:30","curl-command":"curl -X 'GET' -d '' -H 'Accept: */*' -H 'Accept-Language: en' -H 'User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/90.0.4430.93 Safari/537.36' 'https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/gutenberg/readme.txt'","matcher-status":true}
{"template":"http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/hello-dolly.yaml","template-url":"https://cloud.projectdiscovery.io/public/wordpress-hello-dolly","template-id":"wordpress-hello-dolly","template-path":"/Users/ayushi/nuclei-templates/http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/hello-dolly.yaml","info":{"name":"Hello Dolly Detection","author":["ricardomaia"],"tags":["tech","wordpress","wp-plugin","top-100","top-200"],"reference":["https://wordpress.org/plugins/hello-dolly/"],"severity":"info","metadata":{"plugin_namespace":"hello-dolly","wpscan":"https://wpscan.com/plugin/hello-dolly"}},"matcher-name":"outdated_version","type":"http","host":"hypertrends.com","port":"443","scheme":"https","url":"https://hypertrends.com","matched-at":"https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/hello-dolly/readme.txt","extracted-results":["1.7.2"],"request":"GET /wp-content/plugins/hello-dolly/readme.txt HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: hypertrends.com\r\nUser-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (SS; Linux x86_64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/118.0.0.0 Safari/537.36\r\nAccept: */*\r\nAccept-Language: en\r\nAccept-Encoding: gzip\r\n\r\n","response":"HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r\nConnection: close\r\nContent-Length: 623\r\nAccept-Ranges: bytes\r\nContent-Security-Policy: default-src * 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval' data: blob:;\r\nContent-Type: text/plain\r\nDate: Tue, 09 Sep 2025 10:21:45 GMT\r\nEtag: \"5e8a6418-26f\"\r\nLast-Modified: Sun, 05 Apr 2020 23:04:56 GMT\r\nReferrer-Policy: no-referrer-when-downgrade\r\nServer: nginx\r\nStrict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000;\r\nX-Content-Type-Options: nosniff\r\nX-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN\r\nX-Rocket-Nginx-Serving-Static: MISS\r\nX-Xss-Protection: 1; mode=block\r\n\r\n=== Hello Dolly ===\nContributors: matt, wordpressdotorg\nStable tag: 1.7.2\nTested up to: 5.2\nRequires at least: 4.6\n\nThis is not just a plugin, it symbolizes the hope and enthusiasm of an entire generation summed up in two words sung most famously by Louis Armstrong.\n\n== Description ==\n\nThis is not just a plugin, it symbolizes the hope and enthusiasm of an entire generation summed up in two words sung most famously by Louis Armstrong: Hello, Dolly. When activated you will randomly see a lyric from \u003ccite\u003eHello, Dolly\u003c/cite\u003e in the upper right of your admin screen on every page.\n\nThanks to Sanjib Ahmad for the artwork.","meta":{"last_version":"1.7.3"},"ip":"107.180.250.162","timestamp":"2025-09-09T15:51:45.93588+05:30","curl-command":"curl -X 'GET' -d '' -H 'Accept: */*' -H 'Accept-Language: en' -H 'User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (SS; Linux x86_64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/118.0.0.0 Safari/537.36' 'https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/hello-dolly/readme.txt'","matcher-status":true}
{"template":"http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/insert-headers-and-footers.yaml","template-url":"https://cloud.projectdiscovery.io/public/wordpress-insert-headers-and-footers","template-id":"wordpress-insert-headers-and-footers","template-path":"/Users/ayushi/nuclei-templates/http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/insert-headers-and-footers.yaml","info":{"name":"WPCode – Insert Headers and Footers + Custom Code Snippets – WordPress Code Manager Detection","author":["ricardomaia"],"tags":["tech","wordpress","wp-plugin","top-100","top-200"],"reference":["https://wordpress.org/plugins/insert-headers-and-footers/"],"severity":"info","metadata":{"plugin_namespace":"insert-headers-and-footers","wpscan":"https://wpscan.com/plugin/insert-headers-and-footers"}},"extractor-name":"detected_version","type":"http","host":"hypertrends.com","port":"443","scheme":"https","url":"https://hypertrends.com","matched-at":"https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/insert-headers-and-footers/readme.txt","extracted-results":["2.3.0"],"request":"GET /wp-content/plugins/insert-headers-and-footers/readme.txt HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: hypertrends.com\r\nUser-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux i686) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/135.0.0.0 Safari/537.36\r\nAccept: */*\r\nAccept-Language: en\r\nAccept-Encoding: gzip\r\n\r\n","response":"HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r\nConnection: close\r\nTransfer-Encoding: chunked\r\nContent-Security-Policy: default-src * 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval' data: blob:;\r\nContent-Type: text/plain\r\nDate: Tue, 09 Sep 2025 10:21:46 GMT\r\nEtag: W/\"689d9333-55b0\"\r\nLast-Modified: Thu, 14 Aug 2025 07:41:39 GMT\r\nReferrer-Policy: no-referrer-when-downgrade\r\nServer: nginx\r\nStrict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000;\r\nVary: Accept-Encoding\r\nX-Content-Type-Options: nosniff\r\nX-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN\r\nX-Rocket-Nginx-Serving-Static: MISS\r\nX-Xss-Protection: 1; mode=block\r\n\r\n=== WPCode - Insert Headers and Footers + Custom Code Snippets - WordPress Code Manager ===\nContributors: WPbeginner, smub, gripgrip, wpcodeteam\nTags: code, css, php, header, code snippets\nRequires at least: 4.6\nTested up to: 6.8\nRequires PHP: 5.5\nStable tag: 2.3.0\nLicense: GPLv2 or later\nLicense URI: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html\n\nEasily add code snippets in WordPress. Insert header \u0026 footer scripts, add PHP code snippets with conditional logic, insert ads pixel code, and more.\n\n\n== Description ==\n\n= Insert Headers \u0026 Footers + Full WordPress Code Snippets Plugin =\n\n[WPCode](https://wpcode.com/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin) (formerly known as Insert Headers and Footers by WPBeginner) is the most popular code snippets plugin for WordPress used by over 2 million websites.\n\nWe make it easy for you to add code snippets in WordPress without having to edit your theme's functions.php file.\n\nOur simple insert headers and footers interface allows you to insert code like Google Analytics, custom CSS, Facebook Pixel, and more to your WordPress site's header and footer as well other areas of your website. No need to edit your theme files!\n\nAside from Header and Footer scripts, you can also use WPCode to insert custom PHP code snippets, JavaScript code snippets, CSS code snippets, HTML code snippets, and text snippets with full conditional logic support.\n\nWe took the pain out of adding custom code snippets in WordPress and made it easy.\n\n\u003e I have been using Insert Headers and Footers and it is such a useful tool. Super helpful and the very best of its kind. Highly recommend\n\u003e The_Gibble - WordPress user\n\n= Quick Overview of WPCode from WPBeginner =\n\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Fo-7MKRRUec\n\n\u003e \u003cstrong\u003eIntroducing New WPCode Pro\u003c/strong\u003e\u003cbr /\u003e\n\u003e While WPCode Lite offers tons of powerful features for free, we listened to user feedback and created WPCode Pro with even more amazing features to improve your workflow. This includes smart conditional logic, saving code snippets to cloud library, code revisions, page-specific snippets, deeper integration with popular plugins like WooCommerce, Easy Digital Downloads, and so much more. [Click here to purchase the best premium WordPress code snippet plugin now!](https://wpcode.com/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin)\n\n= Future Proof Code Snippet Management =\n\nMost [WordPress tutorial websites](https://www.wpbeginner.com/category/wp-tutorials/) ask you to add code snippets to your theme's functions.php file. This makes managing code snippets messy, and it also prevents you from updating your theme.\n\nIf you ever update your theme or switch to another theme, then you will lose all custom code functions that you added in your functions.php file.\n\nWPCode solves this by providing you an easy way to insert header and footer scripts along with other code snippets directly from your WordPress dashboard. These code snippets actually run as if they were in your theme's functions.php file.\n\nOur smart code snippet validation helps you prevent common code errors to ensure you never break your website when adding code snippets or header and footer scripts.\n\n\u003cstrong\u003eNew WPCode Cloud Library\u003c/strong\u003e even allows you to store all your custom code snippets in a cloud library, so you can easily re-use code snippets across multiple website projects and save time. You can keep your code snippets completely private or [share it with the community](https://library.wpcode.com/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin) to give back while boosting your social profile.\n\n\u003e This plugin allows me to not only add things to my site whenever needed, but it takes me only seconds to accomplish it.\n\u003e David Weber - WordPress user\n\n= Full Code Snippets Library and Code Generators =\n\nEver wanted a central place to find all the most popular WordPress code snippets that are tested and proven to work?\n\nWhen we started Insert Headers and Footers plugin, we did too. So we built a WordPress code snippets library right inside the WPCode plugin.\n\nYou will find verified PHP code snippets for popular feature requests like disable REST API, disable XML-RPC, disable comments, allow SVG file uploads, disable Gutenberg, add Classic Editor, and more without installing separate plugins for each.\n\n\u003e I was very hesitant to get into any of the code for my website. Your plugin made it easy for me to do.\n\u003e Conbrio75 - WordPress user\n\nWe also built the ability to save your code snippets to [WPCode Cloud Library](https://library.wpcode.com/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin), so you can easily re-use it on your other websites, client projects, or even share it with the larger community.\n\nWPCode Cloud Library helps you better organize your code snippets in one central location, so you can save more time and speed up your workflow when managing websites. No more wasting time looking for custom notes or Github gists.\n\nAside from our growing code snippets library, we also have WordPress code generators to help you quickly get ready-to-use custom code using the latest WordPress coding standards and API's.\n\n= Conditional Logic for Code Snippets + Code Insertion Priority =\n\nOur goal with WPCode was to create a WordPress code snippets plugin that's both EASY and POWERFUL.\n\nThat's why aside from our global header and footer scripts, we added advanced features like conditional logic for code snippets and made it easy.\n\nInstead of learning WordPress conditional logic queries, you can use our beginner-friendly conditional logic user interface to:\n\n* Load code snippets for logged in users only\n* Load PHP code snippets for specific user roles\n* Load PHP code snippets only on specific page URLs\n* Insert header and footer pixel scripts on specific pages\n* Show code snippets based on type of page\n* Run code snippet only on certain post types\n* Load header and footer code snippet based on referrer source\n* and more...\n\nWe also added both automatic code insertion and manual code output using shortcodes.\n\nOur Auto Insert feature allows you to run the code snippet everywhere or choose from custom options like:\n\n* Run code snippet only on frontend\n* Run code snippet only in WordPress admin area\n* Add header and footer scripts sitewide\n* Insert PHP code snippet before or after post content\n* Insert code snippet before or after specific paragraph\n* Insert code snippet on specific archive pages\n* Insert code snippets after specific WooCommerce function ([Pro Feature](https://wpcode.com/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin))\n\nAside from that, we also added a visual code snippet priority system, so you can choose the order for your custom functions to avoid code conflict.\n\n\u003e This is such a useful plugin! It makes it so much easier to include things on your website!\n\u003e Understoryliving - WordPress user\n\nAnd for even more flexibility and customization, we have added the ability for you to add page-specific code snippets right from the WordPress classic editor as well as the Gutenberg editor. You can even load code snippets based on device type such as mobile only code snippets, desktop only code snippets, etc.\n\n= Import and Export Code Snippets =\n\nManaging multiple websites or developing in a staging environment?\n\nWe offer an easy way to import and export your custom code snippets, functions, and header and footer scripts to help you save time.\n\nYou can also save your code snippets to WPCode Cloud (Pro feature), so you can easily re-use the same code snippets across multiple websites. This also allows you to better organize your code snippets instead of wasting time searching for random Github gists.\n\n\u003e Simple plugin I use in quite every site. Very useful to insert scripts and tags.\n\u003e tommasoperego - WordPress user\n\n= Full WPCode Feature List =\n\nThe simple interface of WPCode plugin (formerly known as Insert Headers and Footers) gives you one place where you can insert header and footer scripts as well as custom code snippets rather than dealing with dozens of different plugins.\n\nBelow is a full list of WPCode features:\n\n* Quick to set up\n* Unlimited code snippets\n* Simple to insert header and footer scripts globally\n* Beginner Friendly Code Editor with Syntax Highlighter for PHP, JavaScript, and HTML\n* Smart Code Validation to Prevent PHP Errors\n* Insert header code and/or footer code using Conditional Logic\n* Add \u003cstrong\u003eGoogle Analytics\u003c/strong\u003e code to header and footer\n* Add \u003cstrong\u003ecustom CSS\u003c/strong\u003e code to any theme\n* Insert \u003cstrong\u003eFacebook pixel\u003c/strong\u003e code in header and footer\n* Insert any code or script, including HTML and Javascript\n* Insert PHP Code Snippets\n* Ready-made Code Snippet Library\n* Custom WordPress Code Snippet Generator\n* Show or Hide PHP Code Snippets based on conditional logic\n* Run PHP code and custom code snippets everywhere or in select areas using smart auto-insert rules.\n* Manually insert PHP code snippets using shortcodes anywhere on website\n* Add Rich Text Ads and Content Snippets automatically on posts \u0026 pages.\n* Export / Import Code Snippets\n* \u003cstrong\u003eNew\u003c/strong\u003e Save snippets to Cloud Library - All your snippets stored in your private code snippet cloud.\n* \u003cstrong\u003eNew\u003c/strong\u003e Deep integrations with Gutenberg, WooCommerce, and more.\n* Device specific code snippets (such as load code snippets on mobile only, desktop only, etc)\n* and more features coming soon.\n\n= Credits =\n\nInsert Headers and Footers plugin was first created by [Syed Balkhi](https://syedbalkhi.com/) and the [WPBeginner](http://www.wpbeginner.com/) team in 2011.\n\nIt was later rebranded to WPCode in 2022 by Syed Balkhi to add powerful code snippets features that users were requesting for.\n\n= Branding Guideline =\n\nWPCode™ is a trademark of WPCode LLC. When writing about the Insert Headers and Footers - Code Snippets plugin by WPCode, please make sure to uppercase the initial 3 letters.\n\nWPCode (correct)\nWP Code (incorrect)\nwpcode (incorrect)\nwp code snippets (incorrect)\n\n== Installation ==\n\n1. Install WPCode - Insert Headers, Footers, and Code Snippets plugin by uploading the `insert-headers-and-footers` directory to the `/wp-content/plugins/` directory. (See instructions on \u003ca href=\"http://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/step-by-step-guide-to-install-a-wordpress-plugin-for-beginners/\" rel=\"friend\"\u003ehow to install a WordPress plugin\u003c/a\u003e.)\n2. Activate WPCode - Insert Headers, Footers, and Code Snippets plugin through the `Plugins` menu in WordPress.\n3. Insert code in your header and footer or add custom code snippets by going to the `Code Snippets` menu.\n\n[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QXbrdVjWaME]\n\n== Screenshots ==\n\n1. WordPress Code Snippets Management Screen\n2. Ready-Made Code Snippets Library\n3. Edit PHP Snippets with Code Syntax Highlighter\n4. Show / Hide Code Snippets with Smart Conditional Logic\n5. Custom WordPress Code Generators\n6. Example of Custom Post Type Generator\n7. Insert Header and Footer Scripts Globally\n8. Import and Export Code Snippets\n9. Private Snippets Library In Plugin\n10. Page-Specific Scripts Metabox\n\n== Frequently Asked Questions ==\n\n= Can I use WPCode - Insert Headers and Footers to install Google Analytics? =\n\nYes, you can insert your Google Analytics code in the `Scripts in Header` field.\n\n= Can I use WPCode - Insert Headers and Footers for Google AdSense? =\n\nYes, to verify your account or to tag your page for Auto ads, paste the code AdSense gives you, into the Scripts in Header field.\n\n= Will I lose my snippets if I change my WordPress theme? =\n\nNo, the idea behind WPCode - Insert Headers, Footers, and Code Snippets plugin is so you can safely add code snippets.\n\nAll code snippets are stored in the WordPress database, independent of the theme upgrades.\n\n= Can I switch back to the old version of Insert Headers and Footers? =\n\nYes, if you don't want the advanced code snippets functionality, then you can switch back to the old Insert Headers and Footers features by simply going to the Settings Menu and clicking on the Headers \u0026 Footers mode.\n\n= What Type of Code Snippets can I add? =\n\nWith WPCode, you can add any type of code snippet that you would otherwise add in your theme's functions.php file or in a site-specific plugin.\n\nThis includes custom PHP snippets, JavaScript snippets, HTML snippet, CSS snippets, Text Snippets, Conversion pixels, Tracking scripts, AdSense or other banner ads code, and more.\n\n= What are some example plugins WPCode can replace? =\n\nWPCode comes with a ready-made code snippets library that allows you to replace several popular plugins including:\n\n* Disable Comment plugins\n* Disable XML-RPC plugins\n* Disable Rest API plugins\n* Disable Gutenberg plugins\n* Classic Editor plugin\n* Allow SVG File Upload plugins\n* Disable RSS feed plugins\n* Disable Search plugins\n* Disable Automatic Updates plugins\n* Disable Admin Bar plugins\n* Disable Widget Blocks plugin\n* Classic Widgets plugin\n* Remove WordPress Version Number plugins\n* Google Analytics plugins\n* Facebook Pixel plugins\n* Google AdSense plugins\n* Custom Post Types UI plugins\n* Other WordPress Generator plugins\n\n... and basically any plugin that adds a functionality which can be added via custom code snippets.\n\n== Changelog ==\n\n= 2.3.0 =\n* New: We added a way to 1-click update snippets installed from the WPCode library when new versions are available.\n* Tweak: We improved JSON code snippets import validation to show accurate error messages when files are incorrectly formatted.\n\n= 2.2.9 =\n* New: Added a new importer for the Post Snippets plugin to make it easier to migrate your code snippets.\n* Tweak: We adjusted the way the safe mode works to limit its effects on frontend urls.\n\n= 2.2.8 =\n* New: Schema Generators - we added 20 new code generators to make it easier to manage schema code on your website.\n* Tweak: We moved the button to update generated snippets to the top so that you can update snippets easier.\n* Tweak: We added \"suppress_filters\" to WP_Query used by WPCode to avoid conflicts with other plugins.\n* Fix: We fixed an issue where the generated snippets were not automatically inserted when activated.\n\n= 2.2.7 =\n* New: Added support for automatically importing snippets from 2 new plugins.\n\n= 2.2.6 =\n* New: Easily find where your snippet is used as a shortcode with our new shortcode finder tool. 1-click search through your site.\n* New: Improved editor for snippet notes. You can now add links and format text with a WYSIWYG editor.\n* New: Snippet notes column. Display the notes for each snippet in the list of snippets.\n* Fix: We improved the code snippets list filtering in the admin to avoid issues when JS errors are encountered on the page from other scripts.\n\n= 2.2.5 =\n* New: We added a new way to quickly filter snippets by code type in the list of snippets.\n* Tweak: Prevent content_save_pre from modifying snippet code.\n\n= 2.2.4.1 =\n* Fix: Shortcode attributes variables were not being set correctly.\n\n= 2.2.4 =\n* Tweak: We adjusted the way our plugin adds a version-specific body class to avoid conflicts with other plugins.\n* Tweak: We improved the way custom PHP code is executed to avoid conflicts with variables in snippets.\n* Fix: When removing the last Conditional Logic group the rule selector was no longer working.\n\n= 2.2.3.1 =\n* Tweak: Updated the way we load translatable strings in some components for compatibility with WordPress 6.7.\n\n= 2.2.3 =\n* Tweak: We updated the way we validate PHP snippets when making an edit to an active snippet for better feedback when debugging.\n* Tweak: We replaced a dependency (SweetAlert2) for a more lightweight alternative to improve performance.\n\n= 2.2.2 =\n* New: The Add Snippet screen now makes it easier to get started with more than just our library of snippets, choose from expert-picked snippets, snippet generators or plugin-specific snippets.\n* New: We updated the code type picker for more clarity on what each code type is useful for and the last code type you used is now saved for a streamlined experience when adding multiple snippets.\n* Tweak: We extended the unfiltered HTML permissions notice when the DISALLOW_UNFILTERED_HTML constant is defined to add more clarity.\n\n= 2.2.1 =\n* Fix: We fixed a bug that was causing the selected conditional logic operator to not be displayed correctly for some rules.\n* Fix: The auto-insert location picker was not opening again in some situations.\n\n= 2.2.0 =\n* New: We updated the conditional logic rules picker for more clarity and ease of use.\n* New: We expanded our automatic cache clearing to include the Swift Performance plugin.\n* Tweak: The Page URL conditional logic option now supports query params and wp-admin URLs.\n\n= 2.1.14 =\n* New: When making changes to the Global Header \u0026 Footer WPCode will attempt to automatically clear page cache for popular caching plugins.\n* New: Save your snippet with a keyboard shortcut by pressing CTRL+S (Windows) or CMD+S (Mac) in the snippet editor.\n* Tweak: Prevent error when TinyMCE is disabled by other plugins.\n\n= 2.1.13 =\n* New: We added admin-specific locations for header and footer to streamline customizations in the wp-admin area.\n* New: The code editor height can now be adjusted directly from the snippet editor screen. Auto-height is still available as an option on the settings page.\n* Fix: When making changes to a snippet, the function to prevent you from navigating away was no longer working.\n\n= 2.1.12 =\n* New: We added a new way to execute PHP snippets \"On Demand\" - look for the \"On Demand\" location in the Auto Insert settings.\n* Tweak: We added checks in place to prevent malicious code patterns from being used in WPCode.\n* Fix: We fixed a bug where the conditional logic for logged-in users was not being saved correctly the first time.\n\n= 2.1.11 =\n* Tweak: We improved the admin bar menu to fix an JS error in some scenarios and a html validation issue.\n* Tweak: We added support for importing snippets from the Code Snippets Pro plugin.\n* Fix: We fixed an issue with importing CSS snippets.\n\n= 2.1.10 =\n* New: When another user is editing the same snippet, we now show a warning to avoid conflicts.\n* Tweak: Improved mobile styles across the plugin admin for better readability.\n\n= 2.1.9 =\n* New: Conditional logic rule for Blog home page (posts page)\n* Tweak: Improved the connect to library flow to avoid the connect window from getting blocked.\n* Fix: Author archive condition was not working as intended.\n\n= 2.1.8 =\n* Tweak: We changed the way the code generators are loaded to improve performance overall.\n* Tweak: We changed the way translations are loaded for better performance.\n\n= 2.1.7 =\n* New: WPCode now has a Dark Mode for those late night coding sessions. Enable it on the settings page.\n* Tweak: We improved the way the error messages are displayed in the snippet editor for more clarity.\n* Fix: The snippet editor was no longer running syntax checks for PHP snippets upon activation.\n* Fix: We fixed a bug where in certain versions of Safari the auto-insert location was being unset when saving a snippet.\n\n= 2.1.6 =\n* New: We added the option to delete all the plugin data on uninstall.\n* Fix: The code of duplicated snippets was sometimes removing some slashes.\n* Fix: Error count was not correctly updated when snippets were trashed or deleted.\n\n= 2.1.5 =\n* New: Priority column added to the list of snippets, order by snippet priority.\n* Fix: Fixed a notice that was being thrown in new sites when running the installation routines.\n* Fix: Filtering by tag or location in the list of snippets was not working correctly.\n\n= 2.1.4.1 =\n* Fix: Avoid notices for errors that don't include the file parameter.\n* Fix: Improve compatibility with PHP 8.2 for the snippet cache class.\n\n= 2.1.4 =\n* New: Enhanced error tracking: Errors generated by PHP snippets on your website will be displayed within the snippet's context, simplifying the debugging process.\n* New: We've refined the snippet auto-deactivation process. Now, only snippets that produce fatal errors in the admin section will be deactivated. All other errors will be reported through the newly implemented error tracker.\n* New: We introduced three new columns to the snippet list: ID, Code Type, and Shortcode.\n* Tweak: We've enhanced our file caching mechanism to prevent redundant requests in scenarios where files aren't written properly due to certain setups.\n* Tweak: We've implemented an additional check to ensure that closing PHP tags don't disrupt the execution of snippets.\n* Fix: We've corrected the sorting of snippets when arranged by their last updated date.\n\n= 2.1.3.1 =\n* Fix: Shortcode attributes were not being correctly parsed in some scenarios.\n\n= 2.1.3 =\n* New: We improved how we manage automatic snippet disabling when errors occur. You'll now get detailed insights into which snippet is responsible for the error and the exact line where the problem occurred.\n* Tweak: We adjusted the way snippets are preloaded to improve compatibility with object cache.\n* Fix: The snippets added as shortcodes were not correctly displayed in the admin bar.\n\n= 2.1.2 =\n* Tweak: We adjusted the way snippets are tracked in the Admin Bar Code Spotter to avoid wrong numbers in certain locations.\n* Tweak: We improved the way the Admin Bar Code Spotter menu is loaded for better compatibility with other plugins and older themes.\n* Tweak: Changed the way assets used by the admin bar are loaded to avoid errors if the head is loaded multiple times.\n\n= 2.1.1 =\n* New: Easily duplicate a snippet with all of its settings with the new Duplicate link in the list of snippets.\n* Fix: Taxonomy page conditional logic was not being correctly assigned for category and tags archives.\n* Tweak: Adjust admin bar markup to avoid using a heading.\n\n= 2.1.0 =\n* New: See exactly which scripts and snippets are loaded on the current page with the WPCode admin bar info menu.\n* Tweak: Minor update to connect process.\n","meta":{"last_version":"2.2.9"},"ip":"107.180.250.162","timestamp":"2025-09-09T15:51:46.891154+05:30","curl-command":"curl -X 'GET' -d '' -H 'Accept: */*' -H 'Accept-Language: en' -H 'User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux i686) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/135.0.0.0 Safari/537.36' 'https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/insert-headers-and-footers/readme.txt'","matcher-status":true}
{"template":"http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/jetpack.yaml","template-url":"https://cloud.projectdiscovery.io/public/wordpress-jetpack","template-id":"wordpress-jetpack","template-path":"/Users/ayushi/nuclei-templates/http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/jetpack.yaml","info":{"name":"Jetpack – WP Security, Backup, Speed, \u0026 Growth Detection","author":["ricardomaia"],"tags":["tech","wordpress","wp-plugin","top-100","top-200"],"reference":["https://wordpress.org/plugins/jetpack/"],"severity":"info","metadata":{"plugin_namespace":"jetpack","wpscan":"https://wpscan.com/plugin/jetpack"}},"extractor-name":"detected_version","type":"http","host":"hypertrends.com","port":"443","scheme":"https","url":"https://hypertrends.com","matched-at":"https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/jetpack/readme.txt","extracted-results":["14.9.1"],"request":"GET /wp-content/plugins/jetpack/readme.txt HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: hypertrends.com\r\nUser-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Fedora; Linux i686) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/132.0.0.0 Safari/537.36\r\nAccept: */*\r\nAccept-Language: en\r\nAccept-Encoding: gzip\r\n\r\n","response":"HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r\nConnection: close\r\nTransfer-Encoding: chunked\r\nContent-Security-Policy: default-src * 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval' data: blob:;\r\nContent-Type: text/plain\r\nDate: Tue, 09 Sep 2025 10:21:48 GMT\r\nEtag: W/\"689d9186-8827\"\r\nLast-Modified: Thu, 14 Aug 2025 07:34:30 GMT\r\nReferrer-Policy: no-referrer-when-downgrade\r\nServer: nginx\r\nStrict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000;\r\nVary: Accept-Encoding\r\nX-Content-Type-Options: nosniff\r\nX-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN\r\nX-Rocket-Nginx-Serving-Static: MISS\r\nX-Xss-Protection: 1; mode=block\r\n\r\n=== Jetpack - WP Security, Backup, Speed, \u0026 Growth ===\nContributors: automattic, adamkheckler, adrianmoldovanwp, aduth, akirk, allendav, alternatekev, andy, annamcphee, annezazu, apeatling, arcangelini, arsihasi, azaozz, barry, batmoo, beaulebens, bindlegirl, biskobe, bjorsch, blobaugh, brbrr, brileyhooper, cainm, cena, cfinke, cgastrell, chaselivingston, chellycat, clickysteve, csonnek, danielbachhuber, daniloercoli, davoraltman, delawski, designsimply, dkmyta, dllh, drawmyface, dsmart, dun2mis, dzver, ebinnion, egregor, eliorivero, enej, eoigal, erania-pinnera, ethitter, fgiannar, gcorne, georgestephanis, gibrown, goldsounds, hew, hugobaeta, hypertextranch, iammattthomas, iandunn, joen, jblz, jeffgolenski, jeherve, jenhooks, jenia, jessefriedman, jgs, jkudish, jmdodd, joanrho, johnjamesjacoby, jshreve, kbrownkd, keoshi, koke, kraftbj, lancewillett, leogermani, lhkowalski, lschuyler, macmanx, martinremy, matt, mattwiebe, matveb, maverick3x6, mcsf, mdawaffe, mdbitz, MichaelArestad, migueluy, miguelxavierpenha, mikeyarce, mkaz, nancythanki, nickmomrik, njweller, nunyvega, obenland, oskosk, pento, professor44, rachelsquirrel, rdcoll, renatoagds, retrofox, richardmtl, richardmuscat, robertbpugh, roccotripaldi, ryancowles, samhotchkiss, samiff, scarstocea, scottsweb, sdixon194, sdquirk, sermitr, simison, stephdau, thehenridev, tmoorewp, tyxla, Viper007Bond, westi, williamvianas, wpkaren, yoavf, zinigor\nTags: Security, backup, malware, scan, performance\nStable tag: 14.9.1\nRequires at least: 6.7\nRequires PHP: 7.2\nTested up to: 6.8\nLicense: GPLv2 or later\nLicense URI: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html\n\nImprove your WP security with powerful one-click tools like backup, WAF, and malware scan. Includes free tools like stats, CDN and social sharing.\n\n== Description ==\n\n### JETPACK - THE BEST WORDPRESS PLUGIN ###\n\nhttps://videopress.com/v/bEKlywPj\n\nJetpack is a WordPress plugin that helps you create better content, grow your subscribers, earn money from your website and keep it safe, fast, and secure. You can grow and keep track of your website traffic with Jetpack stats, and create better content with Jetpack AI. You can start a newsletter and grow your audience, turning fans into paying subscribers. Create beautiful content with Jetpack Creator and keep your site fast with Jetpack Boost.\n\n= HOW TO GET STARTED WITH JETPACK =\nInstallation is free, quick, and easy. [Set up Jetpack](https://jetpack.com/install?from=wporg) in minutes. Take advantage of more robust features like WordPress site security and design and growth tools by [upgrading to a paid plan](http://jetpack.com/pricing).\n\n= NEED EXPERT SUPPORT? =\nWe have a global team of Happiness Engineers ready to provide incredible support. Ask your questions in the support forum or [contact support](https://jetpack.com/contact-support).\n\n### WHY USE JETPACK ON YOUR SITE ###\n\n= Safer. Faster. More traffic. =\n\nWordPress security, performance, marketing, and design tools — Jetpack is made by WordPress experts to make WP sites safer and faster, and help you grow your traffic.\n\n= 24/7 AUTO SITE SECURITY =\nWe guard your site so you can run your site or business. Jetpack Security provides easy-to-use, comprehensive WordPress site security including auto real-time backups and easy restores, malware scans, and spam protection. Essential features like brute force protection and basic downtime / uptime monitoring are free.\n\n* Back up your site automatically in real time and restore to any point with one click. Cloud storage starts at 10GB, which is more than enough for most sites, with additional storage options available if needed. Great for eCommerce stores especially Woo.\n* Manage migration to a new host, migrate theme files and plugins to a new database, easily duplicate websites, create full database backups, clone websites, repair broken websites by restoring older backups or easily set up a test site by creating a duplicate of your existing WP website.\n* See every site change and who made it with the activity log, great for coordination, debug, maintenance, or troubleshooting.\n* Examine incoming traffic to your WordPress site with our WAF (Web Application Firewall) and decide to allow or block it based on various rules.\n* Add an important layer of protection to your site with our WAF (Web Application Firewall), particularly when attackers actively exploit unpatched vulnerabilities.\n* Automatically perform malware scans and security scans for other code threats. One click fix to restore your site for malware.\n* Block spam comments and form responses with anti spam features powered by Akismet.\n* Brute force attack protection to protect your WordPress login page from attacks.\n* Monitor your site uptime / downtime and get an instant alert of any change by email.\n* Secure WordPress.com powered login used by millions of sites with optional 2FA (two factor authentication) for extra protection.\n* Auto update individual plugins for easy site maintenance and management.\n\nYou can purchase all of Jetpack’s security features in our [Security bundle](https://cloud.jetpack.com/pricing#jetpack_security_t1_yearly), or [VaultPress Backup](https://cloud.jetpack.com/pricing#jetpack_backup_t1_yearly), [Scan](https://cloud.jetpack.com/pricing#jetpack_scan), and [Akismet Anti-spam](https://cloud.jetpack.com/pricing#jetpack_anti_spam) can each be purchased individually.\n\n= PEAK SPEED AND PERFORMANCE =\nGet blazing fast site speed with Jetpack. Jetpack’s free CDN (content delivery network) auto optimizes your images. Watch your page load times decrease — we’ll optimize your images and serve them from our own powerful global network, and speed up your site on mobile devices to reduce bandwidth usage and save money!\n\n* Image CDN for images and core static files, like CSS and JavaScript, served from our servers, not yours, which saves you money and bandwidth.\n* Unlimited, high speed, ad free video hosting keeps the focus on your content, not on ads or recommendations that lead people off site.\n* Custom site search is incredibly powerful and customizable. Helps your visitors instantly find the right content so they read and buy more. Works great with WooCommerce / eCommerce sites to help filter products so customers get what they want on your site faster.\n* Recommended to use with [Jetpack Boost](https://wordpress.org/plugins/jetpack-boost/) for ultimate WordPress site speed.\n\n= POWERFUL TOOLS FOR GROWTH =\nCreate and customize your WordPress site, optimize it for visitors and revenue, and enjoy watching your stats tick up. Build it, share it, and watch it grow.\n\n* Auto publish blog posts and products to social media by simply using our tools to connect to Facebook, Bluesky, Threads, Tumblr, Mastodon, LinkedIn, and Nextdoor.\n* Easily share Instagram posts on your pages and blog posts.\n* Collect a payment or donation, sell a product, service, or membership with simple integrations with PayPal and Stripe.\n* Grow traffic with SEO tools for Google, Bing, Facebook, and WordPress.com. XML sitemap created automatically.\n* Advertise on your site to generate revenue. The ad network automatically does the work for you to find high-quality ads that are placed on your site.\n* Manage Jetpack features from anywhere with the official WordPress mobile app, available for Apple iOS (iPhone or iPad) and Google Android.\n* Looking for Customer Relationship Management? Check out the [Jetpack CRM plugin](https://jetpackcrm.com) which works alongside Jetpack to give you a simple and practical way to build relationships with your customers and leads.\n\n= POWERFUL STATS TO GROW YOUR SITE =\nWith Jetpack Stats, you don’t need to be a data scientist to see how your site is performing.\n\n* Advanced site stats and analytics to help you understand your audience.\n* Discover your top performing posts \u0026 pages.\n* See who is creating the most popular content on your team with our author metrics.\n* Easily keep track of your content creation habits \u0026 trends over the years.\n* View weekly and yearly trends with 7-day Highlights and Year in Review.\n* See what popular social networks your content is being shared to the most.\n* Explore real-time data on visitors, likes, and comments.\n* Get detailed insights on the referrers that bring traffic to your site.\n* Discover what countries your visitors are coming from.\n* Measure link clicks, video plays, and file downloads within your site.\n\n= WRITE SMARTER, NOT HARDER. =\nExperience the ease of crafting professional content with intuitive and powerful AI. Jetpack AI Assistant effortlessly integrates with your WordPress editor, offering an intuitive interface to interact with AI.\nThis powerful block lets you generate diverse content at your command, significantly reducing the time and effort required in content creation.\n\nSimply provide a prompt, and watch as Jetpack AI Assistant crafts compelling blog posts, detailed pages, structured lists, and comprehensive tables - all tailored to your needs.\n\n* Harness AI power directly from your editor.\n* Unlock high-quality, tailored content at your command.\n* Maintain professional standards with ease.\n* AI-powered translations across numerous languages at your fingertips, breaking down language barriers.\n\n= PROMOTE YOUR CONTENT EASILY WITH JETPACK BLAZE =\nFind new fans by promoting your posts and pages across millions of sites in the WordPress.com and Tumblr ad network.\n\n* Create your ad. Choose your audience. Set your budget. It's that easy.\n* Amplify your reach for just a few dollars.\n\n\n= EASY DESIGN TOOLS =\nQuickly customize your site to make it stand out — no coding needed.\n\n* Themes — Simple WordPress themes to get started on your site.\n* Related posts — Keep visitors on your site by automatically showing them related content they will be interested in.\n* Gallery and Slideshow tools — Image galleries, carousel slider, and slideshows for WP sites and stores.\n* Subscriptions — Make it easy for visitors to sign up to receive notifications of your latest posts and comments.\n* Contact form — Easily build unlimited contact forms for free without any coding. Receive email notifications for each response. Integrate with mail solutions like Creative Mail to reach your customers and leads quickly. Connect to Jetpack Anti spam (powered by Akismet) to filter submissions.\n* oEmbed Support — easily embed images, posts, and links from Facebook and Instagram.\n\n= INTEGRATIONS =\nJetpack is updated monthly to ensure seamless integration with top WordPress plugins and other tech products.\n\n* Built for WooCommerce: Jetpack and WooCommerce are both made by Automattic. Backup, Scan, Anti-spam, integrate perfectly for Woo / eComm stores.\n* Jetpack is fully compatible with v2.0 of the official AMP plugin for WordPress.\n* Better understand your customers and marketing with Google Analytics (GA) integration.\n* Social media platforms: Instagram, Facebook, Tumblr, LinkedIn, Threads, Bluesky, Nextdoor.\n* Simple Blocks to customize your site: Pinterest, Whatsapp, Podcast player, GIFs, maps, tiled gallery, slideshow.\n* Payment processors: easily collect payments or donations and sell products through Stripe and PayPal.\n* Site speed and performance plugins: Works great with WP Super Cache by Automattic and Cloudflare.\n* Contact form: Anti-spam (Powered by Akismet) blocks spam comments for Jetpack forms, Contact Form 7, Ninja Forms, Gravity Forms, Formidable Forms, and more.\n* Other tech integrations: Instagram, Creative Mail, Mailchimp, Calendly, Whatsapp, Pinterest, Revue, and more.\n\n= EXPLORE MORE OF JETPACK =\nIf you like Jetpack, consider checking out our other products and bundles\n\n* [Jetpack Complete](https://jetpack.com/redirect?source=org-complete) - The Complete bundle with real‑time security, top performance, and everything you need to grow your business.\n* [Jetpack Security](https://jetpack.com/redirect?source=org-security) - Our Security bundle provides easy‑to‑use, comprehensive WordPress site security, including real‑time backups, a web application firewall, malware scanning, and spam protection.\n* [Jetpack Backup](https://jetpack.com/redirect?source=org-backup) - Save every change and get back online quickly with one‑click restores from Jetpack VaultPress Backup.\n* [Jetpack Scan](https://jetpack.com/redirect?source=org-scan) - Protect your site from bad actors around‑the‑clock ‑ with our web application firewall (WAF) and automated malware scanning with one‑click fixes.\n* [Jetpack Search](https://jetpack.com/redirect?source=org-search) - Instantly deliver the most relevant results to your visitors with Jetpack Search. No coding required, no ads, and no tracking.\n* [Jetpack Boost](https://jetpack.com/redirect?source=org-boost) - Increase your website speed.  Enjoy the same performance advantages as the world’s leading websites, no developer required.\n* [Jetpack VideoPress](https://jetpack.com/redirect?source=org-video) - Display stunning‑quality video with none of the hassle. Drag and drop videos through the WordPress editor and keep the focus on your content, not the ads.\n* [Jetpack AI](https://jetpack.com/redirect?source=org-ai) - Turn your ideas into ready‑to‑publish content at lightspeed.\n* [Jetpack Stats](https://jetpack.com/redirect?source=org-stats) - Keep track of your website visits, popular posts, newsletter subscribers and more.\n* [Jetpack Social](https://jetpack.com/redirect?source=org-social) - Automatically share your website content to your favorite social media platforms, from one place.\n* [Jetpack CRM](https://jetpack.com/redirect?source=org-crm) - Jetpack CRM has all of the tools you need to grow your business. It’s also modular, so you can customize it to suit your needs.\n* [Jetpack Creator](https://jetpack.com/redirect?source=org-creator) - Craft stunning content, boost your subscriber base, and monetize your online presence.\n* [Jetpack  Newsletter](https://jetpack.com/redirect?source=org-newsletter) - Transform your blog posts into newsletters to easily reach your subscribers. Offer paid subscriptions and earn from your content.\n\n= KEEP SPAM OFF YOUR WEBSITE =\n* [Akismet Anti-spam](https://jetpack.com/redirect?source=org-spam) - Automatically clear spam from comments and forms. Save time, get more responses, give your visitors a better experience - all without lifting a finger.\n\n= PROMOTE YOUR CONTENT FOR MORE VIEWS =\n* [Blaze](https://jetpack.com/redirect?source=org-blaze) - Find new fans by promoting your posts and pages across millions of sites in the WordPress.com and Tumblr ad network.\n\n= MANAGE MORE THAN ONE SITE? =\n* [Jetpack Manage](https://jetpack.com/manage/) - All the tools you need to manage multiple WordPress sites. Monitor site security, performance, and traffic, and get alerted if a site needs attention.\n\n= FLY HIGHER WITH INDIVIDUAL PLUGINS =\nEver wish you could have just one feature of Jetpack in its own plugin? Now you can. Check out our individual plugins and install only what you need.\n\n* [Jetpack VaultPress Backup](https://wordpress.org/plugins/jetpack-backup/)\n* [Jetpack Boost](https://wordpress.org/plugins/jetpack-boost/)\n* [Jetpack CRM](https://wordpress.org/plugins/zero-bs-crm/)\n* [Jetpack Protect](https://wordpress.org/plugins/jetpack-protect/)\n* [Jetpack Search](https://wordpress.org/plugins/jetpack-search/)\n* [Jetpack Social](https://wordpress.org/plugins/jetpack-social/)\n* [Jetpack VideoPress](https://wordpress.org/plugins/jetpack-videopress/)\n* [Akismet Anti-Spam](https://wordpress.org/plugins/akismet/)\n\n\n== Installation ==\n\n= Automated Installation =\n\nInstallation is free, quick, and easy. [Set up Jetpack](https://jetpack.com/install?from=wporg) in minutes.\n\n= Manual Alternatives =\n\nAlternatively, install Jetpack via the plugin directory, or upload the files manually to your server and follow the on-screen instructions. If you need additional help read [our detailed instructions](https://jetpack.com/support/installing-jetpack/).\n\n== Frequently Asked Questions ==\n\n= Is Jetpack free? =\n\nYes! Jetpack's core features are free for non-commercial sites.\n\nThese include: site stats, a high-speed CDN for images, related posts, downtime monitoring, brute force attack protection, automated sharing to social networks, sidebar customization, SEO (search engine optimization) tools, and much more.\n\n= Should I purchase a paid plan? =\n\nIt depends on your site and what kind of protection, performance, and design you need. If you make money from your site, the answer is “yes.” For context, Jetpack's paid services include real-time backups, security scanning, spam filtering, video hosting, site monetization, search, priority support, and more.\n\nTo learn more about the essential security and WordPress services we provide and see how we can improve your site, visit [our plans page](https://jetpack.com/pricing?from=wporg).\n\n= Why do I need a WordPress.com account? =\n\nSince Jetpack and its services are provided and hosted by WordPress.com, a WordPress.com account is required for Jetpack to function.\n\n= I already have a WordPress account, but Jetpack isn't working. What's going on? =\n\nA WordPress.com account is different from the account you use to log into your self-hosted WordPress. If you can log into WordPress.com, then you already have a WordPress.com account. If you can’t, you can easily create one[during installation](https://jetpack.com/install?from=wporg).\n\n= How do I view my stats? =\n\nOnce you’ve installed Jetpack, your stats will be available on your Jetpack dashboard and through the [official WordPress mobile app](https://apps.wordpress.com/mobile/).\n\n= How do I contribute to Jetpack? =\n\nThere are opportunities for developers at all levels to contribute. [Learn more about contributing to Jetpack](https://jetpack.com/contribute) or consider [joining our beta program](https://jetpack.com/beta).\n\n= What else does Jetpack include? =\n\nJetpack is the ultimate toolkit for WP for both the classic editor and the block editor, giving you everything you need for a professional site. It includes the following features:\n\n* Activity log — Monitor all site changes for debug, troubleshooting, or maintenance\n* Ads — Earn income by displaying high quality ads on your site.\n* Beautiful Math — Use the LaTeX markup language for writing complex mathematical equations, formulas, and more.\n* Carousel slider — Display a gorgeous full-screen photo browsing experience with comments and EXIF metadata.\n* CDN — Helps your pages load faster by allowing Jetpack to optimize your images and serve your images and static files (like CSS and JavaScript) from our global network of servers.\n* Comments — Replace your default comment form with an improved system with integrated social media login options.\n* Comment Likes — Allows readers to like other comments to show their agreement, approval, or appreciation.\n* Contact Form — Offer your readers the ability to get in touch, without giving out your personal email address.\n* Custom CSS — Customize the appearance of your theme without creating a child theme or worrying about updates overwriting your customizations.\n* Custom Content Types — Adds custom post types (CPTs) to your site.\n* Downtime Monitor — Alerts you via electronic mail if your site goes down to ensure you keep uptime.\n* Extra Sidebar Widgets — Extra widgets you can add to your blog, including RSS Links and Facebook Like Boxes.\n* Gravatar Hovercards — Make your Gravatar profile visible to those viewing your blog.\n* Google Analytics (GA) — Track your WordPress site statistics thanks to Google Analytics.\n* Infinite Scroll — Pulls the next posts automatically into view when the reader approaches the bottom of the page.\n* JSON API — Authorizes applications and services to securely connect to your blog, and allows them to use your content or offer you new functionality.\n* Likes — Allows readers to show their appreciation for your posts with a single click.\n* Markdown — Allows you to compose posts and comments with links, lists, and other styles using regular characters and punctuation marks. Markdown is used by writers and bloggers who want a quick and easy way to write rich text without having to take their hands off the keyboard.\n* Malware detection - automatic malware scans that help protect your WP website with an automated resolution.\n* Notifications — Receive notifications for new comments and Likes in your admin bar and on your mobile device.\n* oEmbed Support — easily embed images, posts, and links from Facebook and Instagram.\n* Plugin Management — Allows easy site maintenance by choosing which plugins update automatically.\n* Post by Email — Publish posts using any mail client.\n* Protect — Protect your site from traditional and distributed brute force login attacks.\n* Publicize — Share new posts on social media networks automatically, or schedule future shares with custom messages.\n* Related Posts  — Show contextual posts your visitors might be interested in reading after they’re done with their current post.\n* Secure Auth —  Secure WordPress.com powered login used by millions of sites with optional 2FA (two factor authentication) for extra protection.\n* Security Scanner — Anti-virus and other threat detection for your WordPress site with automated resolution.\n* Search — A powerful replacement for WordPress’ built-in search, powered by Elasticsearch in the WordPress.com cloud\n* SEO Tools — Optimize your site for search engines by taking advantage of our SEO tools.\n* Sharing — Adds sharing buttons to your blog posts so readers can easily share your content.\n* Shortcode Embeds — Embed videos from YouTube and other media across the web.\n* Site Backup — Automatically back up your entire site. Duplicate, clone, migrate, transfer to a new host, and easily restore. Previously known as VaultPress.\n* Site Stats — View site visits by date, as well as most popular Pages and Posts.\n* Site Verification — Verify your site for use with Google, Bing, and Pinterest and their tools.\n* Sitemap — Generate a list of pages to be indexed by search engines like Google or Bing.\n* Spam Filtering — Automatically filter out spam comments, product reviews, or contact form submissions.\n* Subscriptions — Allow visitors to receive notifications of your latest posts or comments.\n* Tiled Galleries — Display your image galleries in three different styles: a rectangular mosaic, a square mosaic, and a circular grid.\n* Video Hosting  — Upload videos for fast, reliable hosting on WordPress.com.\n* WP.me Shortlinks — Generate short and simple links to your content using the wp.me domain.\n* Widget Visibility — Configure widgets to appear only on specific pages.\n* WordPress.com Toolbar — The WordPress.com Toolbar feature replaces the default admin bar and offers quick links to the Reader, all your sites, your WordPress.com profile, and notifications.\n\n= What Blocks does Jetpack include? =\n\nBlocks are the individual sections that make up a page. There are many block types for you to use. Each block can be edited or moved independently of other blocks. The following is a list of all blocks currently available in Jetpack.\n\n* Ad Block - The Ad block allows you to insert a Jetpack Ad unit anywhere within the content of any post or page.\n* Business Hours Block - The Business Hours block allows you to display your business’s opening hours on your site.\n* Calendly Block - Jetpack's Calendly block allows your visitors to schedule one-on-one appointments, group events, and team meetings directly from your website.\n* Contact Info Block - The Contact Info block lets you add your contact information (email address, physical address, phone number) to any post or page.\n* Donations Block - The Donations block lets you add a payment button to any post or page for a donation, tips, and other contributions, using Stripe as the payment gateway.\n* Eventbrite Block - With the Eventbrite block you can embed events on posts or pages.\n* Form Block - The Form block lets you add a form to your post or page.\n* GIF Block - The GIF block allows you to easily search for and embed an animated GIF image from Giphy directly into a post or page on your WordPress site.\n* Google Calendar Block - The Google Calendar block allows you to easily embed a Google Calendar into your post or page\n* Image Compare Block - The Image Compare Block allows you to display and compare the differences between two images side by side (or above and below) thanks to a slider.\n* Latest Instagram Posts Block - The Latest Instagram Posts Block lets you display your most recent images from Instagram on your site. The block update automatically updates when you post new images to Instagram.\n* Mailchimp Block - The Mailchimp block allows visitors to join your Mailchimp list.\n* Map Block - The Map Block allows you to add a map to any post or page on your site.\n* Markdown Block - With the Markdown block you can create formatted content using only regular characters and some punctuation marks.\n* OpenTable Block - With the OpenTable block, you can add a reservation form on posts or pages.\n* Pay with PayPal Block - Pay with PayPal lets you add a payment button to any post or page, and immediately start taking PayPal payments for physical products, digital goods, or a donation.\n* Payments Block - The Payments Block lets you add a payment button using Stripe as the payment gateway. It works for one-time and recurring payments.\n* Pinterest Block - The Pinterest block is the easiest way to embed Pinterest content to your site: it allows you to embed boards, profiles, and pins.\n* Podcast Player Block - Jetpack's Podcast Player block allows you to easily show your visitors a listing of recent episodes from a podcast and play them on your website.\n* Related Posts Block - The Related Posts feature scans all of your posts' contents, analyzes it, and uses that to display contextual posts your visitors might be interested in reading after they're finished with the current post.\n* Repeat Visitor Block - The Repeat Visitor block enables the author to control the visibility of its nested block(s) depending on how many times a visitor has previously visited the page.\n* Revue Block - The Revue block creates a simple signup form for readers to opt-in to receive your newsletter.\n* Slideshow Block - The Slideshow block lets you insert an image slideshow into a post or page.\n* Star Rating Block - The Ratings block allows any site author to add reviews to the site.\n* Subscription Form Block - The Subscription Form Block allows you to insert a subscription form within the content area of any post or page, enabling your readers to get notifications when you publish new posts.\n* Tiled Gallery Block - With Tiled Galleries you can display your image galleries in four styles: tiled mosaic, circular grid, square tiles, and tiled columns.\n* Video Block - The Video block enhances the existing WordPress Video block and allows you to upload videos from your computer to be hosted on WordPress.com, rather than on your host’s servers.\n* WhatsApp Button Block - The WhatsAPP Button block will allow your customers to send them a message to enquire about their product or services, or ask for support. Clicking on the button will open WhatsApp and pre-fill the phone number and initial message.\n\nJetpack has also created extensions for some WordPress core blocks:\n\n* Social Previews – This extension of the Block Editor allows you to preview what your post / page will look like on search engines and social media.\n\n= Do I need an SSL certificate? =\n\nYou don’t need an SSL Certificate to run Jetpack on your WordPress website. However, it’s recommended to integrate them both into your overall WordPress security strategy. An SSL certificate (Secure Sockets Layer certificate) creates a secure connection between your website and your site visitors’ browsers. It encrypts any data shared on your site — like addresses, emails, phone numbers, and credit card information — and protects that data from hackers.\n\nIf you don’t have an SSL certificate, your site will show a “not secure” warning on users’ browsers, which can reduce your legitimacy in their eyes. SSL certificates also have a positive impact on search engine rankings.\n\nThe process of setting up an SSL certificate will depend on your hosting provider. Some hosts include free certificates, while others charge annually.\n\n= How does Jetpack work with WP Super Cache? =\n\nWP Super Cache works by caching your WordPress pages as static HTML pages so that page requests, for an already cached page, do not need to be processed by the WordPress PHP scripts. Typically, most visitors of your site will view cached versions of the WordPress pages, so your server will have more processing power to serve an increased number of users.\n\nJetpack has an image CDN that works by caching and serving your WordPress images globally from its own servers. These plugins are both maintained by Automattic and work together to give you ultimate site speed.\n\nAutomattic actively develops [Jetpack Boost](https://wordpress.org/plugins/jetpack-boost/) to help you increase your website speed in ways beyond WP Super Cache. We recommend using Jetpack Boost instead of WP Super Cache.\n\n= What version of PHP do I need? =\n\nSites must be built on PHP 7.2 or greater, but Jetpack always supports the latest version of PHP.\n\n= Can Jetpack help my site comply with GDPR? =\n\nOur Cookie and Consent Banner can help you comply with GDPR. The European Union’s ePrivacy Directive (often referred to as the ‘cookie law’) and General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) place requirements on website owners and operators to provide information about, and gain consent for their use of cookies.\n\n= Can Jetpack be used to transfer websites to a new host? =\n\nJetpack Backup can do a full website migration to a new host, migrate theme files and plugins to a new database, create full database backups, clone websites, repair broken websites by restoring older backups and allow you to easily set up a test site by creating a duplicate of your existing website.\n\n\n== Screenshots ==\n\n1. Jetpack Security provides easy-to-use, comprehensive WordPress site security including backups, malware scanning, and spam protection.\n2. Save every change with real-time backups and get back online quickly with one-click restores.\n3. Automated malware scanning and one-click fixes keep your site one step ahead of security threats.\n4. Promote your newest posts, pages, and products across your social media channels.\n5. Incredibly powerful and customizable, help your visitors instantly find the right content – right when they need it.\n6. See what’s working with content performance metrics. Simple, yet powerful stats to grow your site.\n7. Stunning‑quality video with none of the hassle. Drag and drop videos through the WordPress editor and keep the focus on your content, not the ads.\n\n\n== Changelog ==\n### 14.9.1 - 2025-08-06\n#### Bug fixes\n- Open Graph Meta tags: Do not attempt to generate a fallback image when the site is not connected to WordPress.com. [#44661]\n\n### 14.9 - 2025-08-05\n#### Enhancements\n- Add new PayPal Payment block (beta).\n- Forms: Add \"Empty trash\" button.\n- Forms: Add Gravatars in form responses.\n- Forms: Add link to disconnect Google.\n- Forms: Add slider field block.\n- Forms: Add tip that spam will automatically be deleted after 15 days.\n- Forms: Improve email copy-to-clipboard visually and make it less hidden.\n- Forms: Make phone fields clickable\n- Forms: Refresh look of responses in dashboard.\n- Forms: Submit forms without page reload.\n- Forms: Update integration links.\n- Forms: Update the date picker to remove jQuery and add a more performant version with keyboard navigation.\n- Forms: Use sentence case in default consent text.\n- My Jetpack: Enable access to My Jetpack on WP Multisite.\n- My Jetpack: Unify the user connection flow with a unified screen.\n- Open Graph Meta tags: Add a new fallback image to display on the home page.\n- Open Graph meta tags: Support site logos when generating fallback Image Meta tags.\n- Performance: Improve processing of blocks with the Blogging Prompt feature.\n- Podcast player block: Improve page load performance by removing use of `lodash`.\n- Sitemap: Reduce memory usage when generating sitemaps.\n- Social: Improve performance when sanitizing OpenGraph tags.\n- Social: Improve performance when selecting images for OpenGraph tags.\n- Story block: Improve page load performance by removing use of `lodash`.\n- Subscriptions: Improve performance of the legacy Subscriptions widget.\n- Update PayPal Payment Buttons block to support rendering previews.\n- Use the `view_stats` cap for the Jetpack Stats menu item instead of `manage_options`.\n- Widget Conditions Module: Improve performance of block processing during conditional checking.\n- WooCommerce Analytics Module: Improve performance of block processing during Analytics gathering.\n\n#### Improved compatibility\n- Blocks: Prevent PHP errors when `jetpack_set_available_extensions` filter returns an unexpected data type.\n- Sync: Ignore the ActivityPub Outbox CPT.\n\n#### Bug fixes\n- Accessibility: Remove deprecated `clip` property from screen reader text with `clip-path`.\n- Blocks: Return an error when a filter returns a non-array.\n- Carousel: Fix disabling all photon args when opening an image in a lightbox.\n- Clear PayPal Payment button block parameters when changing block type.\n- Dashboard: Use UTC for Jetpack Stats chart.\n- Forms: Enqueue view script only when the form is rendered.\n- Forms: Fix padding on input and textarea fields.\n- Forms: Fix the way forms are submitted.\n- Forms: Fix the way forms are submitted.\n- JITM: Remove jQuery dependency.\n- Mailchimp block: Fix links to accommodate for a bug in Gutenberg.\n- My Jetpack: Fix footer alignment for disconnected accounts.\n- My Jetpack: Prevent expiration alerts for products covered by active bundles.\n- My Jetpack: Restore plan purchase link.\n- Newsletter: Fix bug in category settings.\n- Related Posts: Ensure results are available via REST API directly.\n- Sharing: Display correct Open Graph meta tags when a page uses a Query Loop block.\n- Social: Fix image validation when images sizes are customised.\n- Social Image Generator: Do not use the latest post's Social Image as Open Graph Image tag on the home page.\n- Subscriptions: Avoid enqueuing the legacy widget's stylesheet in block-based themes.\n- Subscriptions: Display floating subscription button on mobile devices as well when enabled.\n- VideoPress: Fix video row action button clickability by properly hiding stats on hover.\n\n--------\n\n[See the previous changelogs here](https://github.com/Automattic/jetpack/blob/trunk/projects/plugins/jetpack/CHANGELOG.md#changelog)\n","meta":{"last_version":"14.8"},"ip":"107.180.250.162","timestamp":"2025-09-09T15:51:48.833461+05:30","curl-command":"curl -X 'GET' -d '' -H 'Accept: */*' -H 'Accept-Language: en' -H 'User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Fedora; Linux i686) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/132.0.0.0 Safari/537.36' 'https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/jetpack/readme.txt'","matcher-status":true}
{"template":"http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/mailchimp-for-wp.yaml","template-url":"https://cloud.projectdiscovery.io/public/wordpress-mailchimp-for-wp","template-id":"wordpress-mailchimp-for-wp","template-path":"/Users/ayushi/nuclei-templates/http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/mailchimp-for-wp.yaml","info":{"name":"MC4WP' Mailchimp for WordPress Detection","author":["ricardomaia"],"tags":["tech","wordpress","wp-plugin","top-100","top-200"],"reference":["https://wordpress.org/plugins/mailchimp-for-wp/"],"severity":"info","metadata":{"wpscan":"https://wpscan.com/plugin/mailchimp-for-wp","plugin_namespace":"mailchimp-for-wp"}},"extractor-name":"detected_version","type":"http","host":"hypertrends.com","port":"443","scheme":"https","url":"https://hypertrends.com","matched-at":"https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/mailchimp-for-wp/readme.txt","extracted-results":["4.10.6"],"request":"GET /wp-content/plugins/mailchimp-for-wp/readme.txt HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: hypertrends.com\r\nUser-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Debian; Linux i686; rv:125.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/125.0\r\nAccept: */*\r\nAccept-Language: en\r\nAccept-Encoding: gzip\r\n\r\n","response":"HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r\nConnection: close\r\nTransfer-Encoding: chunked\r\nContent-Security-Policy: default-src * 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval' data: blob:;\r\nContent-Type: text/plain\r\nDate: Tue, 09 Sep 2025 10:21:51 GMT\r\nEtag: W/\"68919aa8-a2d4\"\r\nLast-Modified: Tue, 05 Aug 2025 05:46:16 GMT\r\nReferrer-Policy: no-referrer-when-downgrade\r\nServer: nginx\r\nStrict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000;\r\nVary: Accept-Encoding\r\nX-Content-Type-Options: nosniff\r\nX-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN\r\nX-Rocket-Nginx-Serving-Static: MISS\r\nX-Xss-Protection: 1; mode=block\r\n\r\n=== MC4WP: Mailchimp for WordPress ===\r\nContributors: Ibericode, DvanKooten, hchouhan, lapzor\r\nDonate link: https://www.mc4wp.com/contribute/#utm_source=wp-plugin-repo\u0026utm_medium=mailchimp-for-wp\u0026utm_campaign=donate-link\r\nTags: mailchimp, subscribe, email, newsletter, form\r\nRequires at least: 4.6\r\nTested up to: 6.8\r\nStable tag: 4.10.6\nLicense: GPL-3.0-or-later\r\nLicense URI: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html\r\nRequires PHP: 7.4\r\n\r\nThe #1 Mailchimp plugin for WordPress. Allows you to add a multitude of newsletter sign-up methods to your site.\r\n\r\n== Description ==\r\n\r\n*Allowing your visitors to subscribe to your newsletter should be easy. With this plugin, it finally is.*\r\n\r\nThis plugins helps you grow your email list in Mailchimp. You can use it to create good looking and accessible sign-up forms or integrate with any other existing form on your WordPress site, like your contact, comment or checkout form.\r\n\r\n[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fZCYPnFybqU]\r\n\r\n#### Some (but not all) features\r\n\r\n- Connect with your Mailchimp account in seconds.\r\n\r\n- Sign-up forms which are good looking, user-friendly and mobile optimized. You have complete control over the form fields and can build your forms using native HTML.\r\n\r\n- Seamless integration with the following plugins:\r\n  - WordPress Comment Form\r\n  - WordPress Registration Form\r\n  - Contact Form 7\r\n  - WooCommerce\r\n  - Gravity Forms\r\n  - Ninja Forms 3\r\n  - WPForms\r\n  - BuddyPress\r\n  - MemberPress\r\n  - Events Manager\r\n  - Easy Digital Downloads\r\n  - Give\r\n  - UltimateMember\r\n  - HTML Forms\r\n  - AffiliateWP\r\n\r\n- Is the plugin you want to integrate with not listed above? You can probably still use our [custom integration](https://www.mc4wp.com/kb/subscribe-mailchimp-custom-html-form/) feature. Alternatively, the plugin comes with a PHP API to programmatically add a new subscriber to Mailchimp.\r\n\r\n- [Mailchimp for WordPress Premium](https://www.mc4wp.com/): Send your WooCommerce orders to Mailchimp so you can see exactly what each subscriber purchased and how much revenue your email campaigns are generating.\r\n\r\n- A multitude of available add-on plugins and integrations:\r\n  - [Mailchimp for WordPress Premium](https://www.mc4wp.com/)\r\n  - [Mailchimp Top Bar](https://wordpress.org/plugins/mailchimp-top-bar/)\r\n  - [Boxzilla Pop-ups](https://wordpress.org/plugins/boxzilla/)\r\n\r\n- Well documented through our [knowledge base](https://www.mc4wp.com/kb/).\r\n\r\n- Developer friendly. For some inspiration, check out our [repository of example code snippets](https://github.com/ibericode/mailchimp-for-wordpress/tree/main/sample-code-snippets).\r\n\r\n- Ready for PHP 8.4, but backwards-compatible all the way down to PHP 7.4.\r\n\r\n#### What is Mailchimp?\r\n\r\nMailchimp is a newsletter service that allows you to send out email campaigns to a list of email subscribers. It is free for lists with up to 500 email subscribers, which is why it is the newsletter-service of choice for thousands of small businesses across the globe.\r\n\r\nIf you are not yet using Mailchimp, [creating an account is 100% free and only takes you about 30 seconds](http://eepurl.com/igOGeX).\r\n\r\n== Installation ==\r\n\r\n#### Installing the plugin\r\n1. In your WordPress admin panel, go to *Plugins \u003e New Plugin*, search for **Mailchimp for WordPress** and click \"*Install now*\"\r\n1. Alternatively, download the plugin and upload the contents of `mailchimp-for-wp.zip` to your plugins directory, which usually is `/wp-content/plugins/`.\r\n1. Activate the plugin\r\n1. Set [your API key](https://admin.mailchimp.com/account/api) in the plugin settings.\r\n\r\n#### Configuring Sign-Up Form(s)\r\n1. Go to *Mailchimp for WP \u003e Forms*\r\n2. Select at least one list to subscribe people to.\r\n3. *(Optional)* Add more fields to your form.\r\n4. Embed a sign-up form in pages or posts using the `[mc4wp_form]` shortcode or Gutenberg block.\r\n5. Show a sign-up form in your widget areas using the \"Mailchimp Sign-Up Form\" widget.\r\n6. Show a sign-up form from your theme files by using the `mc4wp_show_form()` PHP function.\r\n\r\n#### Need help?\r\nPlease take a look at the [MC4WP knowledge base](https://www.mc4wp.com/kb/#utm_source=wp-plugin-repo\u0026utm_medium=mailchimp-for-wp\u0026utm_campaign=installation-instructions-link) first.\r\n\r\nIf you can't find an answer there, please look through the [plugin support forums](https://wordpress.org/support/plugin/mailchimp-for-wp) or start your own topic.\r\n\r\n== Frequently Asked Questions ==\r\n\r\n#### Where can I find my Mailchimp API key?\r\nYou can [find your API key here](http://kb.mailchimp.com/accounts/management/about-api-keys#Find-or-Generate-Your-API-Key)\r\n\r\n#### How to display a form in posts or pages?\r\nUse the `[mc4wp_form]` shortcode or the Gutenberg block.\r\n\r\n#### How to display a form in widget areas like the sidebar or footer?\r\nGo to **Appearance \u003e Widgets** and use the **Mailchimp for WP Form** widget that comes with the plugin.\r\n\r\n#### How to add a sign-up checkbox to my Contact Form 7 form?\r\nUse the following shortcode in your CF7 form to display a newsletter sign-up checkbox.\r\n\r\n`\r\n[mc4wp_checkbox \"Subscribe to our newsletter?\"]\r\n`\r\n\r\nOur knowledge base has more information on [connecting Contact Form 7 and Mailchimp](https://www.mc4wp.com/kb/connecting-contact-form-7-and-mailchimp/).\r\n\r\n#### The form shows a success message but subscribers are not added to my list(s)?\r\nIf the form shows a success message, there is no doubt that the sign-up request succeeded. Mailchimp could have a slight delay sending the confirmation email though. Please check again in a few minutes (sometimes hours) and don't forget to check your junk folder too.\r\n\r\nWhen you have double opt-in disabled, new subscribers will be seen as *imports* by Mailchimp. They will not show up in your daily digest emails or statistics. [We always recommend leaving double opt-in enabled](http://blog.mailchimp.com/double-opt-in-vs-single-opt-in-stats/).\r\n\r\n#### How can I style the sign-up form?\r\nYou can use custom CSS to style the sign-up form if you do not like the themes that come with the plugin. The following selectors can be used to target the various form elements.\r\n\r\n`\r\n.mc4wp-form { ... } /* the form element */\r\n.mc4wp-form p { ... } /* form paragraphs */\r\n.mc4wp-form label { ... } /* labels */\r\n.mc4wp-form input { ... } /* input fields */\r\n.mc4wp-form input[type=\"checkbox\"] { ... } /* checkboxes */\r\n.mc4wp-form input[type=\"submit\"] { ... } /* submit button */\r\n.mc4wp-alert { ... } /* success \u0026 error messages */\r\n.mc4wp-success { ... } /* success message */\r\n.mc4wp-error { ... } /* error messages */\r\n`\r\n\r\nYou can add your custom CSS to your theme stylesheet or (easier) by using a plugin like [Simple Custom CSS](https://wordpress.org/plugins/simple-custom-css/#utm_source=wp-plugin-repo\u0026utm_medium=mailchimp-for-wp\u0026utm_campaign=after-css-link)\r\n\r\n#### How do I show a sign-up form in a pop-up?\r\n\r\nWe recommend the [Boxzilla pop-up plugin](https://wordpress.org/plugins/boxzilla/) for this. You can use the form shortcode in your pop-up box to show a sign-up form.\r\n\r\n### How do I subscribe from my WooCommerce checkout form?\r\n\r\nYou can use our WooCommerce integration for that. [How to subscribe to Mailchimp from the WooCommerce checkout form](https://www.mc4wp.com/kb/connect-woocommerce-store-mailchimp/).\r\n\r\n### How to connect my WooCommerce store with Mailchimp?\r\n\r\nYou can find instructions for [connecting your WooCommerce store with Mailchimp](https://www.mc4wp.com/kb/connect-woocommerce-store-mailchimp/) on our website.\r\n\r\n#### I'm getting an \"HTTP Error\" when trying to connect to Mailchimp.\r\n\r\nthe \"HTTP Error\" type is usually because of a firewall configuration issue or outdated software on your web server.\r\n\r\nPlease contact your webhost and ask them to check the following:\r\n\r\n- Whether remote HTTP requests to `https://api.mailchimp.com` are allowed.\r\n- Whether cURL and the PHP-cURL extension are installed and updated to a recent version.\r\n\r\n#### My question is not listed here.\r\n\r\nPlease search through our [knowledge base](https://www.mc4wp.com/kb/#utm_source=wp-plugin-repo\u0026utm_medium=mailchimp-for-wp\u0026utm_campaign=faq).\r\n\r\n\r\n== Other Notes ==\r\n\r\n#### Support\r\n\r\nIf you need some help in setting up the plugin, you have various options:\r\n\r\n- Search through our [knowledge base](https://www.mc4wp.com/kb/#utm_source=wp-plugin-repo\u0026utm_medium=mailchimp-for-wp\u0026utm_campaign=description).\r\n- Open a topic in the [WordPress.org plugin support forums](https://wordpress.org/support/plugin/mailchimp-for-wp)\r\n- If you're a premium user, send an email to the email address listed inside the plugin.\r\n\r\n#### Translations\r\n\r\nYou can [help translate this plugin into your language](https://translate.wordpress.org/projects/wp-plugins/mailchimp-for-wp/stable/) using your WordPress.org account.\r\n\r\n#### Development\r\n\r\nThis plugin is being developed on GitHub. If you want to collaborate, please look at [ibericode/mailchimp-for-wordpress](https://github.com/ibericode/mailchimp-for-wordpress).\r\n\r\n#### Customizing the plugin\r\n\r\nThe plugin provides various filter and action hooks that allow you to modify or extend the default behavior. We're also maintaining a [collection of sample code snippets](https://github.com/ibericode/mailchimp-for-wordpress/tree/main/sample-code-snippets).\r\n\r\n== Screenshots ==\r\n\r\n1. Example sign-up form in the TwentyTwenty theme.\r\n2. Example sign-up integration with a contact form.\r\n3. Settings page to connect with your Mailchimp account.\r\n4. Overview of sign-up integrations.\r\n5. Overview of sign-up forms.\r\n6. Settings page to configure an integration.\r\n7. Page where you edit your sign-up forms.\r\n8. Page where you modify your form messages.\r\n9. Settings page for e-commerce integration with Mailchimp. Requires [Mailchimp for WordPress Premium](https://www.mc4wp.com/).\r\n\r\n== Changelog ==\r\n\n\n#### 4.10.6 - Jul 23, 2025\n\n- [WooCommerce Checkout] Fix checkbox from showing up in order confirmation email if using Checkout Block.\n- [Forms] Fix `{response}` tag being escaped.\n\n\n#### 4.10.5 - Jun 25, 2025\n\n- [Ninja Forms] Always show at least one list option so that onchange event fires properly (to load Audience fields).\n- Update third-party JS dependencies.\n- Optimize SVG icons for reduced file sizes.\n\n\n#### 4.10.4 - May 26, 2025\n\n- Improved context-dependent escaping in dynamic content tags. \n\n\n#### 4.10.3 - Apr 16, 2025\n\n- Update third-party JS dependencies.\n- Add message setting for when a form submission is marked as spam.\n- Log exact anti-spam rule when a form submission is marked as spam.\n- Handle potential Prosopo connection errors gracefully.\n\n\n#### 4.10.2 - Feb 28, 2025\n\n- Fix WPForms parameter type change causing a fatal error if using WPForms with a Mailchimp sign-up field.\n- Add Mailchimp data to Personal Data exporter. Contributed by [David Anderson from UpdraftPlus](https://updraftplus.com/).\n- Prevent PHP notices in lists overview on general settings page.\n\n\n#### 4.10.1 - Feb 06, 2025\n\n- Fix JS error breaking Ninja Forms edit form page when not connected to a Mailchimp account or account has no audiences.\n- Remove `sprintf` usage in hot path.\n- Lazy load `MC4WP_API_V3` class to save some memory and parse time.\n- Save a tiny bit of memory in autoloader implementation by not repeatedly storing plugin directory.\n- Remove unused setting key from default options.\n\n\n#### 4.10.0 - Jan 23, 2025\n\n- Bump required PHP version to 7.4 or higher.\n- Obfuscate API key the same way as in the Mailchimp.com interface.\n- Delete all plugin data when plugin is uninstalled / deleted via WP Admin.\n- Fix several PHP 8.4 deprecation warnings.\n- Address warning about translations being loaded too early if using Ninja Forms integration.\n- Run stored setting values related to user-facing textual messages through i18n functions to allow translating them through plugins like Loco Translate or WPML.\n\n\n#### 4.9.21 - Jan 08, 2025\n\n- [Forms] Rename \"list choice\" to \"audience choice\" in available form fields.\n- [Ninja Forms] Fix gettext being called too early warning in Ninja Forms base class.\n- [WooCommerce] Allow pre-checking of sign-up checkbox in Checkout Block.\n\n\n#### 4.9.20 - Dec 18, 2024\n\n- Fix Ninja Forms integration field no longer showing up.\n- Fix \"link is expired\" message because of missing nonce on button to dismiss API key notice.\n- [WPML] Added text_no_lists_selected to the config file so it can be translated. Thanks [Diego Pereira](https://github.com/diiegopereira)!\n\n\n#### 4.9.19 - Nov 11, 2024\n\n- Add integration with [Prosopo](https://prosopo.io/), a GDPR compliant anti-spam solution for protecting your sign-up forms against bot sign-ups. Thanks [Maxim Akimov](https://github.com/light-source)!\n\n\n#### 4.9.18 - Oct 21, 2024\n\n- Bump required PHP version to 7.2.\n- Prevent non-functional checkbox from showing up on WooCommerce my account page if WooCommerce checkout integration is enabled.\n- Update default form content to include a \"for\" attribute on the label element.\n- Minor performance optimizations to `MC4WP_Form::get_subscriber_tags()`\n- Begrudgingly rename Mailchimp lists to Mailchimp audiences throughout the plugin's admin interfaces.\n\n\n#### 4.9.17 - Sep 17, 2024\n\n- Fix compatibility with WooCommerce versions 8.5 to 8.8 because of private method that was later made public.\n- Fix potential reflected XSS by stripping and escaping all HTML from `{email}` tag replacements. Thanks to kauenavarro for responsibly disclosing.\n- Fix potential stored XSS for attackers with both administrator access and Mailchimp account access by escaping HTML from interest group name. Thanks to Jorge Diaz (ddiax) for responsibly disclosing.\n\n\n#### 4.9.16 - Sep 11, 2024\n\n- Add support for WooCommerce Checkout Block in sign-up checkbox integration.\n\n\n#### 4.9.15 - Aug 13, 2024\n\n- Improved anti-spam measures on the [custom form integration](https://www.mc4wp.com/kb/subscribe-mailchimp-custom-html-form/). If you are using the custom form integration (using the `mc4wp-subscribe` checkbox), please test your forms after upgrading and report any issues to us.\n- Improved anti-spam measures on all sign-up forms.\n- Remove unsupported filter hook from Gravity Forms integration. \n\n\n#### 4.9.14 - Jul 17, 2024\n\n- Very minor code-size improvements to public forms related JavaScript.\n- Update third-party JS dependencies.\n- Bump tested WordPress version to 6.6.\n\n\n#### 4.9.13 - Apr 25, 2024\n\n- Fix issue with Composer classmap throwing a fatal error when an older version of Composer is already loaded.\n\n\n#### 4.9.12 - Apr 22, 2024 \n\n- Fix last 10 Mailchimp lists not being pulled-in when having more than 10 lists.\n\n\n#### 4.9.11 - Jan 8, 2024\n\n- Update third-party JS dependencies.\n- Bump tested WordPress version.\n\n\n#### 4.9.10 - Nov 20, 2023\n\n- Integrations: Update CheckoutWC hook name for WooCommerce checkbox integration.\n- Forms: Don't show form preview to users without `edit_posts` capability.\n- Forms: Explicitly exclude form preview from search engine indexing.\n- General: Don't unnecessarily go through service contrainer while bootstrapping plugin.\n- General: Remove some unnecessary JavaScript now that browser support has caught up.\n\n\n#### 4.9.9 - Oct 3, 2023 \n\n- Fix class \"MC4WP_Usage_Tracking\" not found error for WP Cron / WP CLI processes.\n\n\n#### 4.9.8 - Oct 3, 2023\n\n- Remove the opt-in usage tracking functionality as we're not really using it for decision making anymore.\n- Add missing label element to the select element for setting the logging level.\n- Our JavaScript assets are now transpiled to support the same set of browsers as WordPress core. \nThis drops support for some very old browsers, but results in smaller bundle sizes for the supported set of browsers.\n- Update third-party JS dependencies to their latest versions.\n\n\n#### 4.9.7 - Aug 29, 2023\n\n- Update third-party JS dependencies.\n- Minor textual improvements.\n- Bump tested WordPress version.\n\n\n#### 4.9.6 - Jul 12, 2023\n\n- Update third-party JS dependencies.\n- Address some minor codestyle issues.\n\n\n#### 4.9.5 - Jun 7, 2023\n\n- Fix generated HTML for list/audience choice fields.\n- Fix deprecation warning in includes/admin/class-review-notice.php.\n- Update JavaScript dependencies.\n\n\n#### 4.9.4 - May 2, 2023\n\n- Fallback to default checkbox label if none given. Thanks to [Shojib Khan](https://github.com/kshojib).\n- Improve WooCommerce integration settings page by disabling position field if integration is disabled. Thanks to [Shojib Khan](https://github.com/kshojib).\n- Update JavaScript dependencies.\n\n\n#### 4.9.3 - Mar 31, 2023\n\n- Defend against breaking change in latest WPForms update.\n\n\n#### 4.9.2 - Mar 21, 2023\n\n- Add support for a field named `MARKETING_PERMISSIONS` to enable GDPR fields configured in Mailchimp. A [sample code snippet can be found here](https://github.com/ibericode/mailchimp-for-wordpress/blob/main/sample-code-snippets/forms/gdpr-marketing-permissions.md).\n- Remove Google reCaptcha feature. This was already disabled if you were not already using it.\n\n\n#### 4.9.1 - Feb 7, 2023\n\n- Fix generated value attribute for fields of type choice (dropdown, checkboxes, radio fields).\n- Fix type of `marketing_permissions` field in API requests. Thanks to [George Korakas](https://github.com/gkorakas-eli).\n- Refactor list overview JS to not depend on Mithril.js anymore.\n- Simplify admin footer text asking for a plugin review.\n- When renewing lists, renew cached marketing permissions too.\n\n\n#### 4.9.0 - Jan 13, 2023 \n\n- Removed deprecated filter hook `mc4wp_settings_cap`, use `mc4wp_admin_required_capability` instead.\n- Removed deprecated filter hook `mc4wp_merge_vars`, use `mc4wp_form_data` or `mc4wp_integration_data` instead.\n- Removed deprecated filter hook `mc4wp_form_merge_vars`, use `mc4wp_form_data` instead.\n- Removed deprecated filter hook `mc4wp_integration_merge_vars`, use `mc4wp_integration_data` instead.\n- Removed deprecated filter hook `mc4wp_valid_form_request`, use `mc4wp_form_errors` instead.\n- Removed deprecated function `mc4wp_get_api()` and deprecated class `MC4WP_API`.\n- Removed deprecated function `mc4wp_checkbox()`.\n- Removed deprecated function `mc4wp_form()`, use `mc4wp_show_form()` instead.\n- Added filter `mc4wp_debug_log_message` to modify or disable messages that are written to the debug log.\n- Fix color of invalid Mailchimp API key notice.\n- Sanitize IP address value from `$_SERVER['REMOTE_ADDR']` too.\n- Fetch GDPR marketing permissions via first subscriber on list and show them in lists overview table.\n\n\n#### 4.8.12 - Dec 06, 2022\n\n- Minor performance, memory usage \u0026 size optimizations for all JavaScript code bundled with this plugin.\n\n\n#### 4.8.11 - Nov 1, 2022\n\n- Improved default styling for the WooCommerce sign-up checkbox integration.\n- Add `\u003cstrong\u003e` to allowed HTML elements for GDPR disclaimer text on settings pages.\n- Remove all references to obsolete placeholders.js polyfill.\n- Move the GiveWP sign-up checkbox closer to the email input field. Thanks [Matthew Lewis](https://github.com/Matthew-Lewis).\n\n\n#### 4.8.10 - Sep 14, 2022\n\n- Fix mc4wp_get_request_ip_address() to return an IP address that matches Mailchimp's validation format when X-Forwarded-For header contains a port component.\n\n\n#### 4.8.8 - Aug 25, 2022\n\n- Fix mc4wp_get_request_ip_address() to pass new Mailchimp validation format. This fixes the \"This value is not a valid IP.\" error some users using a proxy may have been seeing.\n\n\n#### 4.8.7 - Mar 2, 2022\n\n- Fix PHP 8.1 deprecation warnings in `MC4WP_Container` class.\n- Fix name of action hook that fires before Mailchimp settings rows are displayed on the settings page. Thanks [LoonSongSoftware](https://github.com/LoonSongSoftware).\n- Improve WPML compatibility. Thanks [Sumit Singh](https://github.com/5um17).\n- Fix deprecated function for AMP integration.\n- Only allow unfiltered HTML if user has `unfiltered_html` capability. Please read the below.\n\nDespite extensive testing, we may have missed some more obscure HTML elements or attributes from our whitelist.\nIf you notice that some of your form HTML is stripped after saving your form, please get in touch with our support team and provide the HTML you attempted to save.\n\n\n#### 4.8.6 - Jun 24, 2021\n\n- Add nonce field to button for dismissing notice asking for plugin review.\n- Add strings from config/ directory to POT file.\n- Add nonce check to AJAX endpoint for refreshing cached Mailchimp lists.\n- Add capability check to AJAX endpoint for retrieving list details.\n- Schedule event to refresh cached Mailchimp list upon plugin activation.\n\nThanks to the team over at [pluginvulnerabilities.com](https://www.pluginvulnerabilities.com/) for bringing some of these changes to our attention.\n\n\n#### 4.8.5 - Jun 1, 2021\n\nAdd nonce verification to all URL's using `_mc4wp_action` query parameter.\nThis fixes a CSRF vulnerability where a malicious website could trick a logged-in admin user in performing unwanted actions.\n\nA special thanks to Erwan from [WPScan](https://wpscan.com/) for bringing this issue to our attention.\n\n\n#### 4.8.4 - May 7, 2021\n\n- Add `defer` attribute to JS file, so page parsing isn't blocked at all.\n- Rewrite plugin CSS to optimize for selector performance and get rid of some duplication.\n\nAfter installing this update, make sure to also update any add-on plugins like [Mailchimp for WordPress Premium](https://www.mc4wp.com/premium-features/) and [Mailchimp Top Bar](https://wordpress.org/plugins/mailchimp-top-bar/).\n\n\n#### 4.8.3 - Jan 21, 2021\n\n- Fix fatal error on older PHP versions when submitting form without any subscriber tags set in the form settings.\n- Minor performance improvement in bootstrap method of the plugin.\n\n\n#### 4.8.2 - Jan 20, 2021\n\n- Allow short-circuiting `mc4wp_subscriber_data` filter by returning `null` or `false`.\n- Use a subdirectory for the default debug log file location, so that it's easier to protect using htaccess.\n- Improved reliability for fetching lists from mailchimp when lists have high stats.member_count property.\n\n\n#### 4.8.1 - Aug 25, 2020\n\n- Fix notice by explicitly setting `permission_callback` on registered REST route.\n- Minor internal code improvements.\n\n#### 4.8 - Jul 9, 2020\n\n- Plugin now requires PHP 5.3 or higher.\n- Prefix overlay classname to prevent styling collissions with other plugins.\n- Form sign-ups can now add tags to both new and existing subscribers.\n- Update JavaScript dependencies.\n- Register script early to work with Gutenberg preview.\n\n\n#### 4.7.8 - Jun 04, 2020\n\n- Add `MC4WP_API_V3::add_template` method.\n- Minor code hardening to ensure a default form is always set.\n- Update JS dependencies to their latest versions.\n- Fix icon for Gutenberg block.\n\n\n#### 4.7.7 - Apr 28, 2020\n\n- Update JS dependencies to their latest versions.\n- API client `add_list_member` method now has an additional parameter to skip merge field validation.\n- Simplify code for updating an existing form.\n\n\n#### 4.7.6 - Apr 9, 2020\n\n- Update JS dependencies to their latest versions.\n- Check if className is of type string, fixes a console warning when clicking inside a SVG element.\n- Minor improvements to the AMP implementation to address harmless validation warnings.\n\n\n#### 4.7.5 - Feb 10, 2020\n\n- Add AMP compatibility to sign-up forms, thanks to Claudiu Lodromanean. This uses the [official AMP plugin for WordPress](https://amp-wp.org).\n- Add settings key to WPML config so settings can easily by copied over to translated versions of a form.\n- Optimize size \u0026 performance of JavaScript code, resulting in a file that is 40% smaller.\n- Update CodeMirror to its latest version.\n- Escape all string translations.\n\n\n#### 4.7.4 - Dec 7, 2019\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- htaccess config for servers running Apache 2.4 or later.\n\n\n#### 4.7.3 - Dec 4, 2019\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Top Bar \u0026 User Sync add-on using API v2 since version 4.7.1.\n- Revert change in formatter for date fields, breaking all forms with date fields in them.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Add getter method for raw (unmodified) data on form class.\n\n\n#### 4.7.2 - Nov 27, 2019\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Invalid .htaccess file in case there already is one in the uploads directory.\n\n\n#### 4.7.1 - Nov 26, 2019\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Update MemberPress hook names. Thanks [Ian Heggaton](https://github.com/pixelated-au)!\n- Use WordPress.org translations instead of bundling translation files in plugin itself.\n- Write .htaccess to directory of debug log file, to prevent file access.\n- Add some convenient hooks for Checkout for WooCommerce.\n- Stop parsing shortcodes in text widgets as WordPress core does this since version 4.9.\n\n\n#### 4.7 - Nov 7, 2019\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Add role=alert to form notices.\n- Add setting to pre-check sign-up checkbox for Gravity Forms integrations.\n- Add new position for WooCommerce integration: directly after the billing_email field.\n- Fix PHP notices for submitting a form and saving a form as an administrator.\n- Add link to [Koko Analytics plugin](https://wordpress.org/plugins/koko-analytics/).\n\n\n#### 4.6.2 - Oct 24, 2019\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Address fields in forms would always be required (even if really optional).\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Add proper SVG admin menu icon.\n- Minor overall performance and memory usage improvements.\n\n\n#### 4.6.1 - Oct 7, 2019\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Fixed list cache usage for WPForms, Gravity Forms and Ninja Forms integrations.\n\n\n#### 4.6.0 - Oct 7, 2019\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Improved fetch and cache mechanism for retrieving Mailchimp account details, fetching data only when it is required.\n- Updated [Mithril](https://mithril.js.org/) and [CodeMirror](https://codemirror.net/) dependencies.\n- Decreased size of `forms.js` from 22KB to 9KB.\n- No longer requiring jQuery anywhere.\n- Increase API HTTP request timeout to 15 seconds.\n\nPlease note that installing this update requires you to also update any add-ons like [Mailchimp Top Bar](https://wordpress.org/plugins/mailchimp-top-bar/) and [Mailchimp for WordPress Premium](https://www.mc4wp.com/premium-features/) (if installed).\n\n\n#### 4.5.5 - Sep 12, 2019\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Google reCAPTCHA script was still loading even if no forms have it enabled.\n\n\n#### 4.5.4 - Sep 11, 2019\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Removed custom color from menu item for improved accessibility.\n- Take birthday field format into account when sending data to Mailchimp.\n- Print Google reCAPTCHA script in footer.\n\n**Changes**\n\n- Changed plugin name to MC4WP instead of Mailchimp for WordPress.\n\n\n#### 4.5.3 - July 23, 2019\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Temporarily switch status of pending subscribers to \"unsubscribe\" versus deleting susbcriber before re-subscribing.\n- Deprecation notice for Gravity Forms version 2.4 and higher.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Filter out empty tags when applying tags to new subscribers.\n- Show all not installed integrations.\n- Show notice when form doesn't have a Mailchimp list selected to subscribe people to.\n- Check function existence for compatibility with WordPress 4.7\n- Don't submit form when Google reCAPTCHA is enabled but errors.\n- Update third-party JavaScript dependencies.\n\n\n#### 4.5.2 - May 8, 2019\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Accept more truthy values in custom integration for improved compatibility with third-party forms.\n- Update JavaScript dependencies.\n- Load Google reCaptcha script in footer (if needed).\n\n\n#### 4.5.1 - April 8, 2019\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Add sign-up integration for [Give](https://wordpress.org/plugins/give/)\n- Add sign-up integration for [UltimateMember](https://wordpress.org/plugins/ultimate-member/)\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Write to debug log if Google reCAPTCHA secret key is incorrect.\n- Validate reCAPTCHA keys when savings form settings.\n- Allow setting an empty \"successfully subscribed\" message.\n\n\n#### 4.5.0 - March 27, 2019\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Built-in integration with Google reCAPTCHA to prevent bots from subscribing to your Mailchimp lists.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Minor improvements to the JavaScript that is loaded on admin pages.\n\n\n#### 4.4.0 - March 1, 2019\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- AffiliateWP integration subscribing the wrong user if affiliate ID differs from user ID.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Renamed \"MailChimp\" to \"Mailchimp\" to match Mailchimp's new branding.\n- More accurate handling of timeouts for accounts with many MailChimp lists.\n- UX improvements for integrations overview page.\n- Validate MailChimp API key format when it's entered.\n- Improved compatibility with Klarna Checkout in the WooCommerce checkout integration.\n- Bumped required PHP version to 5.3 (soft requirement for now).\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Added Gutenberg block for easily adding a form to a post or page.\n- Added subscriber tags setting to forms.\n\n\n#### 4.3.3 - December 31, 2018\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Update WPForms integration to properly detect if the WPForms plugin is activated.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Write API request parameters to the debug log in case of connection timeouts.\n- Update JavaScript dependencies.\n\n\n#### 4.3.2 - December 11, 2018\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Use of `readonly` function, which is only available in WordPress 4.9 or later.\n\n\n#### 4.3.1 - November 28, 2018\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Fatal error on PHP versions older than 5.5\n\n\n#### 4.3 - November 28, 2018\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Added `MC4WP_API_KEY` PHP constant which can be used to set your Mailchimp API key.\n- Add `mc4wp_mailchimp_list_limit` filter hook to modify the maximum number of Mailchimp lists to fetch. Defaults to 200.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Apply `mc4wp_integration_gravity-forms_options` filter hook on Gravity Forms integration options so the checkbox can be prechecked and the checkbox label text modified.\n- The `updated_subscriber` JS event is now fired forms not using AJAX as well (when applicable).\n\n\n#### 4.2.5 - Sep 11, 2018\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Only re-add subscriber to list if we want to re-trigger a double opt-in confirmation email.\n- Change Gravity Forms field name to \"Mailchimp for WordPress\"\n- Get rid of cached result of Mailchimp API connection.\n\n\n#### 4.2.4 - July 9, 2018\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Ensure type-safety on some global variables.\n- Stop showing trashed forms immediately.\n- Pre-check Mailchimp list when creating a new form if there is only 1 list.\n- Send `null` for unknown values in usage tracking data (only when opted-in).\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Add methods for accessing Mailchimp's e-commerce promo code endpoints to API class.\n\n\n#### 4.2.3 - June 11, 2018\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Don't wrap \"agree to terms\" input in hyperlink element.\n- Allow [ENTER] key again after field helper overlay is closed.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Fallback to meta-refresh if redirect fails because of \"headers already sent\" error.\n\n\n\n#### 4.2.2 - May 22, 2018\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Events Manager integration was not working with logged-in users.\n- Form preview URL should respect admin HTTP(S) scheme.\n- Removed use of PHP 5.4 function.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Add \"agree to terms\" checkbox to field helper.\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Add filter `mc4wp_http_request_args`.\n\n\n#### 4.2.1 - April 11, 2018\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Namespace usage warning when running PHP 5.2\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Remove obsolete `type` attribute from all `\u003cscript\u003e` tags printed by the plugin.\n- Improved tooltips on settings pages.\n- Do not pre-check integration checkboxes by default.\n- Add textual warnings to settings that may affect [GDPR compliance](https://www.mc4wp.com/kb/gdpr-compliance/).\n- Update translation files.\n\n#### 4.2 - March 5, 2018\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Live form preview while editing form.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Improved [conditional fields logic](https://www.mc4wp.com/kb/conditional-fields-elements/).\n- Debug log now includes request \u0026 response data.\n- [Form JavaScript events](https://www.mc4wp.com/kb/javascript-form-events/) are fired in an isolated thread now, to prevent errors in event callbacks from breaking form functionality.\n- Don't send empty field values to Mailchimp when updating subscribers.\n- Show interest grouping ID in list overview on settings page.\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Ninja Forms export checkbox would always state \"checked\" when form contained a Mailchimp sign-up checkbox.\n\n\n\n#### 4.1.15 - February 7, 2018\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Dropdown fields with special characters were not properly passed to Mailchimp.\n- Interest groups with an all-numeric ID were not properly passed to Mailchimp.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Various minor code optimizations\n- Do not redirect when showing \"already subscribed\" warning.\n- Improved scroll to form handling after a form is submitted without AJAX.\n\n\n#### 4.1.14 - January 8, 2018\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Validate method was incorrectly checking required array fields.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Wrap some missing strings in translate calls. Thanks [morlor](https://github.com/morloi).\n- Make it clear that redirecting after successful form submissions will not show the \"subscribed\" message.\n\n\n\n#### 4.1.13 - December 28, 2017\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Array to string conversion in default form messages.\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Allow marking Gravity Forms sign-up checkbox as a required field.\n\n\n#### 4.1.12 - December 11, 2017\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Ninja Forms double opt-in setting was incorrectly inversed.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Simplified form processing \u0026 notice logic.\n- Prevent 404 errors by proactively replacing lowercased `name=\"name\"` input attributes.\n- Updated JavaScript dependencies.\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Integration for AffiliateWP.\n\n\n#### 4.1.11 - November 2, 2017\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Filter out empty array values when overriding selected Mailchimp lists via `_mc4wp_lists`.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Updated JavaScript dependencies.\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Link to the [HTML Forms](https://www.htmlforms.io/) from the plugin settings pages.\n\n\n#### 4.1.10 - October 19, 2017\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Remove unused options from Ninja Forms integration.\n- Now logging all sign-ups from Ninja Forms integrations when using [Mailchimp for WordPress Premium](https://www.mc4wp.com/premium-features/).\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Added Gravity Forms integration. You can now integrate with Gravity Forms by adding the \"Mailchimp\" field to your forms.\n\n\n#### 4.1.9 - September 19, 2017\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Add `\u003clabel\u003e` element to sign-up checkbox for WCAG compatibility.\n- Custom integration now works with Enfold theme's contact form element.\n\n\n#### 4.1.7 \u0026 4.1.8 - September 8, 2017\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Properly escape the return value of `add_query_arg` when it is used in HTML attributes to prevent cross-site scripting. Thanks to [Karim Ouerghemmi of RIPS](https://www.ripstech.com/) for responsibly disclosing.\n- Now loading integrations after WPML so that String Translations work properly.\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Add sign-up integration for WPForms forms.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Updated internal JS dependencies.\n- Form tag `{data key=\"foo.bar\"}` now allows you to access nested array values.\n\n\n#### 4.1.6 - July 31, 2017\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Method on API class for retrieving campaign data.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Show Akamai reference number when an API request is blocked by Mailchimp's firewall.\n- Minor output buffering improvements in form previewer.\n\n\n#### 4.1.5 - June 27, 2017\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Failsafe against outputting sign-up checkbox twice in registration forms.\n- Properly close HTML anchor element in French translation files.\n- Fix BuddyPress sign-ups when using WordPress Multisite.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Fire action hook `mc4wp_form_updated_subscriber` whenever a form was used to update a subscriber in Mailchimp.\n- Increase browser timeout for AJAX request when fetching Mailchimp lists.\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Added campaign \u0026 template methods to API client class.\n\n\n\n#### 4.1.4 - June 15, 2017\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Some form specific JS events were not firing due to incorrect event names.\n- Registration form integration now works with WooCommerce registration form.\n- Notice that asks for a plugin review would re-appear after dismissing it.\n\n\n#### 4.1.3 - May 24, 2017\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Randomise time of cron event that renews Mailchimp lists.\n- Always try to show Mailchimp list info when API key is given.\n\n\n#### 4.1.2 - May 8, 2017\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Use earlier hook priority for Ninja Forms 3 integration so action is registered on time.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Improved Mailchimp list fetching \u0026 memory usage for accounts with many lists.\n- Show error message when fetching lists fails.\n- Updated plugin translations.\n\n#### 4.1.1 - April 11, 2017\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- WPML String Translation not working with the checkbox label for sign-up integrations.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Use updated order methods when using WooCommerce 3.0, thanks to Liam McArthur.\n- Updated JavaScript dependencies.\n\n\n#### 4.1.0 - March 14, 2017\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Updated all JavaScript dependencies in the plugin.\n- Failsafed filter hooks to prevent invalid variable types.\n- Explain that greyed out integrations means that specific plugin is not activated.\n- Conditional form elements now uses event delegation, so it works with forms in [Boxzilla pop-ups](https://boxzillaplugin.com/).\n- Updated language files.\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Added support for Ninja Forms 3.\n- Added `mc4wp_integration_show_checkbox` filter.\n\n\n#### 4.0.13 - February 8, 2017\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Ensure fields are HTML decoded before sending to Mailchimp.\n- Better OptimizePress compatibility.\n- Show all address-type fields as required when form contains 1 or more fields of the same address group.\n\n\n#### 4.0.12 - January 16, 2017\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Don't call `stripslashes` on POST data twice.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Plugin review notice is now dismissible over AJAX.\n- Improved formatting of birthday fields.\n- Updated Polish translations, thanks to Mateusz Lomber.\n- Updated German translations, thanks to Sven de Vries.\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Add `update_ecommerce_store_product` method to API class.\n- Throw form specific JavaScript events, like `15.subscribed` to hook into \"subscribed\" events for form with ID 15.\n\n\n#### 4.0.11 - December 9, 2016\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Unescaped request variable on integration settings page, allowing for authenticated XSS. Thanks to [dxwsecurity](https://security.dxw.com/) for responsibly disclosing.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Add `$args` parameter to `API::get_lists_activity` method. Relates to the [Mailchimp Activity](https://wordpress.org/plugins/mc4wp-activity/) plugin.\n\n\n#### 4.0.10 - December 6, 2016\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- You can now enable or disable debug logging from the \"Other\" settings page.\n- No longer using deprecated function in Contact Form 7, thanks to [stodorovic](https://github.com/stodorovic).\n- Improved UI for adding hidden interest groupings fields to a form.\n\n\n#### 4.0.9 - November 23, 2016\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Issue with escaped HTML when using form tags introduced by previous update.\n\n\n#### 4.0.8 - November 23, 2016\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Improved handling of large debug logs.\n- Improved error messages when writing exceptions to debug log.\n- Show notice when form is missing required Mailchimp fields.\n- Custom form integration now handles arrays with 1-level depth. Thanks to [Mardari Igor](https://github.com/GarryOne).\n- You can now use nested tags in your form code, eg `{data key=\"utm_source\" default=\"{current_path}\"}`\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Add `data-hide-if` attribute logic to forms. See [conditionally hide form fields](https://www.mc4wp.com/kb/conditional-fields-elements/). Thanks to [Kurt Zenisek](http://kurtzenisek.com/).\n- Add hooks for delayed BuddyPress sign-up. Thanks to [Christian Wach](https://profiles.wordpress.org/needle).\n\n\n#### 4.0.7 - October 25, 2016\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Obfuscate all email addresses in debug log. Thanks [Sauli Lepola](https://twitter.com/SJLfi).\n- Ask for confirmation before disabling double opt-in, which we do not recommend.\n- Allow vertical resizing of debug log.\n- Failsafe against including JavaScript file twice.\n- No longer wrapping CF7 checkbox in paragraph tags.\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Added `mc4wp_form_api_error` action hook for API errors encountered by forms.\n- Added `element_class` argument to `[mc4wp_form]` shortcode for adding CSS classes.\n\n\n#### 4.0.6 - October 10, 2016\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Issue with lists not showing when using W3 Total Cache with APCu object cache enabled.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- We're no longer stripping newlines from text fields.\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Added missing e-commerce related API methods to API class.\n\n\n#### 4.0.5 - September 29, 2016\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Allow checkbox option for the List Choice field (again).\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Fetch Mailchimp lists over AJAX, to speed up perceived performance (especially when your account has many lists).\n- Periodically fetch Mailchimp lists, so cache is always fresh.\n- Improved `\u003clabel\u003e` element accessibility for checkbox integrations.\n- Stop using double underscore prefix in function names, as these are reserved in PHP 7.\n- `{post}` and `{user}` shortcodes now accept a `default` parameter.\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Add [MemberPress](https://www.memberpress.com/) integration.\n- Add missing e-commerce related API methods for next week's [WooCommerce Mailchimp e-commerce integration](https://www.mc4wp.com/kb/what-is-ecommerce/) release.\n\n\n#### 4.0.4 - September 7, 2016\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Allow re-running previous migrations by visiting a certain admin URL.\n- Do not show checkboxes option for fields that only accept a single value.\n- Write field specific errors to debug log when Mailchimp denies a sign-up request.\n- Write to debug log when custom integrations can not find an EMAIL field.\n- Differentiate between connection \u0026 authorization errors when testing connection to Mailchimp.\n- Bump limit of number of Mailchimp lists to fetch from 100 to 500.\n\n\n#### 4.0.3 - August 24, 2016\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Ninja Forms integration not working when using PayPal integration.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Show connection errors on Mailchimp settings page.\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Add pre-checked option to Ninja Forms integration.\n- ...\n\n== Upgrade Notice ==\r\n\r\n= 3.0.3 =\r\n\r\nMinor improvements and re-added support for Goodbye Captcha integration.\r\n","meta":{"last_version":"4.10.6"},"ip":"107.180.250.162","timestamp":"2025-09-09T15:51:51.755902+05:30","curl-command":"curl -X 'GET' -d '' -H 'Accept: */*' -H 'Accept-Language: en' -H 'User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Debian; Linux i686; rv:125.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/125.0' 'https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/mailchimp-for-wp/readme.txt'","matcher-status":true}
{"template":"http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/megamenu.yaml","template-url":"https://cloud.projectdiscovery.io/public/wordpress-megamenu","template-id":"wordpress-megamenu","template-path":"/Users/ayushi/nuclei-templates/http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/megamenu.yaml","info":{"name":"Max Mega Menu Detection","author":["ricardomaia"],"tags":["tech","wordpress","wp-plugin","top-200"],"reference":["https://wordpress.org/plugins/megamenu/"],"severity":"info","metadata":{"plugin_namespace":"megamenu","wpscan":"https://wpscan.com/plugin/megamenu"}},"matcher-name":"outdated_version","type":"http","host":"hypertrends.com","port":"443","scheme":"https","url":"https://hypertrends.com","matched-at":"https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/megamenu/readme.txt","extracted-results":["3.6.1"],"request":"GET /wp-content/plugins/megamenu/readme.txt HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: hypertrends.com\r\nUser-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux x86_64; rv:124.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/124.0\r\nAccept: */*\r\nAccept-Language: en\r\nAccept-Encoding: gzip\r\n\r\n","response":"HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r\nConnection: close\r\nTransfer-Encoding: chunked\r\nContent-Security-Policy: default-src * 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval' data: blob:;\r\nContent-Type: text/plain\r\nDate: Tue, 09 Sep 2025 10:21:51 GMT\r\nEtag: W/\"6891a5cb-c964\"\r\nLast-Modified: Tue, 05 Aug 2025 06:33:47 GMT\r\nReferrer-Policy: no-referrer-when-downgrade\r\nServer: nginx\r\nStrict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000;\r\nVary: Accept-Encoding\r\nX-Content-Type-Options: nosniff\r\nX-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN\r\nX-Rocket-Nginx-Serving-Static: MISS\r\nX-Xss-Protection: 1; mode=block\r\n\r\n=== Max Mega Menu ===\nContributors: megamenu\nTags: menu, responsive menu, mega menu, navigation, mobile menu\nRequires at least: 5.0\nTested up to: 6.8\nStable tag: 3.6.1\nRequires PHP: 5.6\nLicense: GPLv2 or later\nLicense URI: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html\n\nAn easy to use mega menu plugin. Written the WordPress way.\n\n== Description ==\n\nMax Mega Menu will automatically convert your existing menu into a mega menu. You can then add any WordPress widget to your menu, restyle your menu using the theme editor and change the menu behaviour using the built in settings. Max Mega Menu is a complete menu management plugin, perfect for taking control of your existing menu and turning it into a user-friendly, accessible and touch ready menu with just a few clicks.\n\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=44dJwP1AXT8\n\nDocumentation \u0026 Demo: [https://www.megamenu.com](https://www.megamenu.com)\n\n###Mobile\n\n* Automatic support for native touch events\n* Off Canvas Mobile Menu option built in\n* Specify your own Responsive Breakpoint\n* For items with sub menus, choose between \"First click opens sub menu, second click closes sub menu\" or \"First click opens sub menu, second click follows link\"\n* Option to hide sub menus on mobile\n* Mobile Toggle Bar designer allows you to tailor the toggle bar elements to fit in with your site design\n\n###Features\n\n* Builds upon the standard WordPress menus system\n* Restores the *Appearance \u003e Menus* screen in \"full site editing\" themes\n* Supports multiple menu locations each with their own configuration\n* Off canvas (slide in from left or right) or standard drop down mobile menu\n* Organise your sub menu content into rows and columns using the Grid Layout builder\n* Display WordPress Widgets in your menu\n* Fully customise the styling of your menus using the built in theme editor\n* Supports Flyout (traditional) or Mega Menu sub menu styles\n* Hover, Hover Intent or Click event to open sub menus\n* Fade, Fade Up, Slide Up or Slide sub menu transitions\n* Add icons to menu items\n* Menu item options including Hide Text, Disable Link, Hide on Mobile etc\n* Align menu items to the left or right of the menu bar\n* Align sub menus to left or right of parent menu item\n* Display your menu using Automatic Integration, Block, Widget or Shortcode.\n\n###Accessibility\n\n* Keyboard Navigation built in\n* `TAB` activates keyboard navigation and navigates through the menu\n* `ENTER` or `SPACE` on a sub menu arrow indicator shows/hides the sub menu\n* `ESC` closes all open sub menus\n\nMax Mega Menu is developed with a focus on code quality, performance and usability.\n\n* The only mega menu plugin with zero \"!important\", block or inline CSS styles\n* Menus are styled using a single, static CSS file\n* Less than 2kb JavaScript (when gzipped)\n* Responsive, touch \u0026 retina ready\n* Built with accessibility in mind - keyboard navigation supported\n* Extensively tested in all modern desktop and mobile browsers\n* Clean code with a low memory footprint\n* Supports all core nav_menu filters (prepend filter name with \"mega_\")\n* In depth documentation\n* Basic Support included with free version\n\n####Pro Features:\n\n\u003e * Tabbed Mega Menus\n\u003e * Sticky Menu\n\u003e * Vertical \u0026 Accordion Menus\n\u003e * FontAwesome, Genericon \u0026 Custom Icons\n\u003e * Custom Item Styling\n\u003e * Menu Logo\n\u003e * Search Box\n\u003e * WooCommerce \u0026 EDD support\n\u003e * Google Fonts\n\u003e * Roles \u0026 Restrictions\n\u003e * Mobile toggle blocks\n\u003e * Automatic updates\n\u003e * Priority Support\n\u003e\n\u003e Find out more: [https://www.megamenu.com/upgrade/](https://www.megamenu.com/upgrade/)\n\n== Frequently Asked Questions ==\n\n= Is it compatible with Elementor? =\nYes! See: [https://www.megamenu.com/documentation/elementor/](https://www.megamenu.com/documentation/elementor/)\n\n= Where do I start? =\n[https://www.megamenu.com/documentation/installation/](https://www.megamenu.com/documentation/installation/)\n\n= It’s not working at all =\n[https://www.megamenu.com/documentation/not-working-at-all/](https://www.megamenu.com/documentation/not-working-at-all/)\n\n= It works but somethings not right =\n[https://www.megamenu.com/documentation/it-works-but-somethings-not-right/](https://www.megamenu.com/documentation/it-works-but-somethings-not-right/)\n\n= The mobile menu is visible but nothing happens when I click it =\n[https://www.megamenu.com/documentation/the-mobile-menu-is-visible-but-nothing-happens-when-i-click-it/](https://www.megamenu.com/documentation/the-mobile-menu-is-visible-but-nothing-happens-when-i-click-it/)\n\n= The mobile menu is completely hidden =\n[https://www.megamenu.com/documentation/the-mobile-menu-is-completely-hidden/](https://www.megamenu.com/documentation/the-mobile-menu-is-completely-hidden/)\n\n= I see two mobile toggle buttons =\n[https://www.megamenu.com/documentation/i-see-two-mobile-toggle-buttons/](https://www.megamenu.com/documentation/i-see-two-mobile-toggle-buttons/)\n\n= A blank screen appears when I click the blue ‘Mega Menu’ button =\n[https://www.megamenu.com/documentation/blank-screen-when-clicking-blue-mega-menu/](https://www.megamenu.com/documentation/blank-screen-when-clicking-blue-mega-menu/)\n\n= Changes I make in the Theme Editor aren’t being applied to the menu =\n[https://www.megamenu.com/documentation/theme-editor-not-working/](https://www.megamenu.com/documentation/theme-editor-not-working/)\n\n== Installation ==\n\n1. Go to the Plugins Menu in WordPress\n1. Search for \"Max Mega Menu\"\n1. Click \"Install\"\n\nhttps://www.megamenu.com/documentation/installation/\n\n== Screenshots ==\n\nSee https://www.megamenu.com for more screenshots\n\n1. New menu changes\n2. Drag and Drop widget editor for each menu item\n3. Front end: Mega Menu\n4. Front end: Flyout Menu\n5. Back end: Use the theme editor to change the appearance of your menus\n\n== Changelog ==\n\n= 3.6.2 =\n\n* Accessibility Fix: Windows Narrator ignores \"Enter\" keypress, preventing tab navigation working reliably\n* Fix: CSS generation fails when outdated versions of MMM Pro are installed (\u003c= 2.3.1)\n* Fix: PHP notice\n* Change: Add css_type SCSS variable\n* Fix: Colorpicker z-index\n\n= 3.6.1 =\n\n* Fix: PHP Error when percentage sign used in HTML block in menu toggle bar\n\n= 3.6 =\n\n* New: Experimental 'Use Flex CSS' option added to theme editor for new installations of MMM (will become available to existing installations in future versions)\n* New: Color picker in theme editor updated to allow CSS variables to be entered\n* New: Allow 'wv' units to be used to define sub menu width (e.g. 100vw will make the sub menu full browser width)\n* Update: Reusable block widget renamed to Pattern widget (use this to show saved Block Patterns within your sub menus)\n* Fix: Double blue 'Mega Menu' button in Enfold theme\n* Fix: Mobile close button sometimes disappears (use options rather than transients to store CSS version and generation date)\n* Fix: Sub menu items in mega menus don't appear on mobile when flex styling is used\n* Fix: Do not apply collapse children class to tabbed menu items\n* Improvement: Use more reliable/cleaner method to add toggle bar html to menu output\n* Accessibility: Change standard menu toggle span to button, for NVDA screen readers\n\n= 3.5 =\n\n* New: Dedicated Elementor Widget\n* Accessibility Improvement: Add presentation role to grid layout containers to prevent NVDA from announcing them\n* Accessibility Improvement: Add aria-hidden attribute to arrow indicators\n* Accessibility Fix: Pressing Enter on standard mobile toggle button now opens/closes mobile sub menu\n* Improvement: Use style attributes on grid layout to define number of rows and columns, in preparation for using CSS Grid styling\n* Improvement: Refactor mobile CSS, remove usage of :has\n* Improvement: Refactor second and third level item styling so that it can be used within tab sub menus without being duplicated\n* Improvement: Refactor method for adding close button HTML to menu output\n* Improvement: Refactor JS: remove usage of data-has-click-event attribute\n* Fix: Fix styling of mobile menu as it transitions from open to closed\n* Fix: Error loading scss in some instances\n\n= 3.4.1 =\n\n* Fix: PHP 5.6 compatibility\n\n= 3.4 =\n\n* New: Allow off canvas menus to be 100% wide\n* New: Add option to Theme Editor to add a Close icon to off canvas mobile menus\n* Accessibility Fix: Remove 'aria-haspopup' attribute\n* Fix: Dynamic sub menu width calculation bug\n* Accessibility Improvement: Escape key now closes sub menus sequentially\n* Improvement: Small refactor of maxmegamenu.js\n* Improvement: Set default mobile menu type to Off Canvas\n\n= 3.3.2 =\n\n* Fix: CSS validation error (move @charset rule to first line)\n* Fix: jQuery migrate warnings (change unbind to off)\n* Accessibility Fix: On mobile, when pressing enter on the parent of a hidden submenu, follow the link\n* Fix: PHP warning when activating plugin for first time using PHP 8.2\n* Fix: When CSS Output has been set to 'Disabled', do not automatically set it back to 'Output in Head' if generation of the CSS file fails\n\n= 3.3.1 =\n\n* Accessibility Improvement: Ensure items within hidden off canvas menu cannot be focused using keyboard\n* Fix: 'Desktop' mode detection when using browser zoom\n* Fix: Conflict with Darklup Pro (and possibly other plugins which use scssphp library)\n* Fix: Always use 'direct' filesystem method to generate style.css file\n* Fix: jQuery migrate warnings\n* Security fix: Add nonce check to sandbox URL. Thanks to patchstack for reporting.\n\n= 3.3 =\n\n* Fix: PHP 8.2 compatibility (update scssphp library to v1.11.1)\n* Notes: If you have problems with CSS Compilation (menu appears unstyled) add the following to your wp-config.php file:\n`define('MEGAMENU_SCSS_COMPILER_COMPAT', true);`\n* Fix: Conflict with Salient when enabled on Multisite\n* Fix: Improve efficiency of key press detection\n* Accessibility Improvement: Using keyboard navigation on mobile, respect the 'Mobile sub menu behaviour' setting (do not auto close sub menus)\n* Accessibility Improvement: Fix issue with NVDA/screen readers not able to open sub menus using Enter key\n\n= 3.2.4 =\n\n* Change: Remove \"visibility: visible;\" rule from menu UL\n* Fix: Warning with Ninja Popups plugin\n* Accessibility improvement: Space bar can now be used to toggle visibility of mobile sub menu\n* Accessibility improvement: Up/down keys can be used to navigate top level menu items in mobile sub menu\n* Accessibility improvement: Add 'Keyboard Highlight Outline' styling option to theme editor\n* Accessibility improvement: Add outline to entire search form when using keyboard navigation\n* Fix: Using left/right arrow keys to navigate top level menu items when a search box is in the menu\n* Improvement: Remove 'display' inline CSS attribute when mobile menu is opened/closed\n\n= 3.2.3 =\n\n* Fix: Check the walker property exists before adding menu toggle to HTML output\n* Fix: PHP 8.1 warning\n* Fix: Conflict with The Bluehost Plugin\n\n= 3.2.2 =\n\n* Fix: Position of aria-expanded and aria-haspopup attributes\n* Fix: Do not use ':has' selector in CSS unless required\n\n= 3.2.1 =\n\n* Fix: Nested collapsed children CSS\n\n= 3.2 =\n\n* Revert: Remove tabindex from arrow indicator due to HTML validation errors, restore pre 3.1 tab/focus behaviour\n* New: Introduce experimental \"MEGAMENU_EXPERIMENTAL_MOVE_ARROW\" option to move arrow indicator HTML alongside the link element and allow separate keyboard focus (requires clearing the CSS Cache after enabling)\n* Fix: PHP 8.1 compatibility\n\n= 3.1.1 =\n\n* Fix: Pressing Enter on a menu item where the arrow indicator has been hidden should first show the sub menu, then follow the link.\n* Fix: Mobile menu slides down, but does not slide back up\n* Improvement: Make it possible to dequeue hoverIntent without causing JavaScript errors\n\n= 3.1 =\n\n* Accessibility improvement: sub menus no longer appear automatically when parent items are tabbed to. Each sub menu arrow indicator can now be tabbed to and activated (by pressing Enter) independently. Note: it is required to clear the CSS cache to enable correct focus highlighting of the arrow indicators when using keyboard navigation, see megamenu.com for a demonstration.\n* Accessibility improvement: add \"aria-current\" attribute to current menu items\n* Accessibility improvement: space bar key press on sub menu indicator now shows/hides sub menu\n* Accessibility improvement: add role='button' to sub menu indicator arrow\n* Accessibility improvement: add aria-label attribute to sub menu indicator arrow which identifies the sub menu that will be opened/closed when activated\n* Fix: Correct Requi
        ├───reconx
        │   ├───dnsrecon
			223e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000:===== Dnsrecon Metadata =====
Tool      : dnsrecon
Target    : ticketblox.com
Status    : SUCCESS
Command   : dnsrecon -t std -d ticketblox.com
Timestamp : 2025-09-01T06:55:11.398464+00:00
==========================

----- STDOUT -----
[*] std: Performing General Enumeration against: ticketblox.com...
[-] DNSSEC is not configured for ticketblox.com
[*] 	 SOA ns35.domaincontrol.com 97.74.107.18
[*] 	 SOA ns35.domaincontrol.com 2603:5:21b1::12
[*] 	 NS ns35.domaincontrol.com 97.74.107.18
[*] 	 NS ns35.domaincontrol.com 2603:5:21b1::12
[*] 	 NS ns36.domaincontrol.com 173.201.75.18
[*] 	 NS ns36.domaincontrol.com 2603:5:22b1::12
[*] 	 MX alt1.aspmx.l.google.com 192.178.163.27
[*] 	 MX alt2.aspmx.l.google.com 172.217.78.27
[*] 	 MX aspmx.l.google.com 74.125.130.27
[*] 	 MX aspmx2.googlemail.com 192.178.163.27
[*] 	 MX aspmx3.googlemail.com 172.217.78.27
[*] 	 MX alt1.aspmx.l.google.com 2607:f8b0:400e:c17::1a
[*] 	 MX alt2.aspmx.l.google.com 2607:f8b0:4023:1c05::1a
[*] 	 MX aspmx.l.google.com 2404:6800:4003:c04::1b
[*] 	 MX aspmx2.googlemail.com 2607:f8b0:400e:c17::1b
[*] 	 MX aspmx3.googlemail.com 2607:f8b0:4023:1c05::1a
[*] 	 A ticketblox.com 75.2.70.75
[*] 	 A ticketblox.com 99.83.190.102
[*] 	 TXT ticketblox.com facebook-domain-verification=xucsngnvvxi9gzqbmyis4m7y19e18f
[*] 	 TXT ticketblox.com google-site-verification=z6N-cErgKxllmhRZ_4kVZt_GLfhGFIpfhmsy1gr2_iU
[*] 	 TXT ticketblox.com v=spf1 include:_spf.google.com ~all
[*] 	 TXT _dmarc.ticketblox.com v=DMARC1;p=none;sp=none;pct=100;rua=mailto:anup@ticketblox.com;ruf=mailto:anup@ticketblox.com;ri=86400;aspf=s;adkim=s;fo=1
[*] 	 TXT _dmarc.ticketblox.com v=DMARC1;p=none;sp=none;pct=100;rua=mailto:support@ticketblox.com;ruf=mailto:support@ticketblox.com;ri=86400;aspf=s;adkim=s;fo=1
[*] 	 TXT _dmarc.ticketblox.com v=DMARC1;p=none;sp=none;pct=100;rua=mailto:ali@ticketblox.com;ruf=mailto:ali@ticketblox.com;ri=86400;aspf=s;adkim=s;fo=1
[*] Enumerating SRV Records
[+] 0 Records Found

----- STDERR -----


        │   ├───nmap_port_scan
				223e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000:===== Nmap_Port_Scan Metadata =====
Tool      : nmap_port_scan
Target    : ticketblox.com
Status    : SUCCESS
Command   : nmap -sV -p 80,443 ticketblox.com
Timestamp : 2025-09-01T10:27:08.332149+00:00
==========================

----- STDOUT -----
Starting Nmap 7.97 ( https://nmap.org ) at 2025-09-01 15:56 +0530
Nmap scan report for ticketblox.com (75.2.70.75)
Host is up (0.023s latency).
Other addresses for ticketblox.com (not scanned): 99.83.190.102
rDNS record for 75.2.70.75: aacb0a264e514dd48.awsglobalaccelerator.com

PORT    STATE SERVICE   VERSION
80/tcp  open  http      nginx
443/tcp open  ssl/https

Service detection performed. Please report any incorrect results at https://nmap.org/submit/ .
Nmap done: 1 IP address (1 host up) scanned in 14.83 seconds

----- STDERR -----


        │   ├───nmap_scan
			223e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000:===== Nmap_Scan Metadata =====
Tool      : nmap_scan
Target    : ticketblox.com
Status    : SUCCESS
Command   : nmap -sV -Pn ticketblox.com
Timestamp : 2025-09-01T06:56:22.912232+00:00
==========================

----- STDOUT -----
Starting Nmap 7.97 ( https://nmap.org ) at 2025-09-01 12:24 +0530
Nmap scan report for ticketblox.com (75.2.70.75)
Host is up (0.022s latency).
Other addresses for ticketblox.com (not scanned): 99.83.190.102
rDNS record for 75.2.70.75: aacb0a264e514dd48.awsglobalaccelerator.com
Not shown: 998 filtered tcp ports (no-response)
PORT    STATE SERVICE   VERSION
80/tcp  open  http      nginx
443/tcp open  ssl/https

Service detection performed. Please report any incorrect results at https://nmap.org/submit/ .
Nmap done: 1 IP address (1 host up) scanned in 90.13 seconds

----- STDERR -----


        │   ├───subfinder
			223e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000:===== Subfinder Metadata =====
Tool      : subfinder
Target    : ticketblox.com
Status    : SUCCESS
Command   : subfinder -silent -all -d ticketblox.com
Timestamp : 2025-09-01T06:55:24.477140+00:00
==========================

----- STDOUT -----
cygnet-demo.ticketblox.com
m454445.ticketblox.com
events.ticketblox.com
bh-demo.ticketblox.com
huddleup-phx.ticketblox.com
summer-demo.ticketblox.com
huddleup.ticketblox.com
inah.ticketblox.com
siapso.ticketblox.com
avengers.ticketblox.com
mantraspresents.ticketblox.com
worldtour-demo.ticketblox.com
scanningapi.ticketblox.com
testingarabic.ticketblox.com
deadmau5.ticketblox.com
fasanorio.ticketblox.com
invictuslv.ticketblox.com
ordersapi-dev.ticketblox.com
pyt-fitness.ticketblox.com
cultureclub.ticketblox.com
danish.ticketblox.com
icmiamihotel.ticketblox.com
truevet.ticketblox.com
countdown.ticketblox.com
apollobeats.ticketblox.com
huddleup-socal.ticketblox.com
jazztrax-demo.ticketblox.com
ladiesnightoutvegas.ticketblox.com
lucky23concert.ticketblox.com
resistance.ticketblox.com
surreal.ticketblox.com
thedinnerdetective.ticketblox.com
huddleup-slc.ticketblox.com
boombastic-demo.ticketblox.com
eventsapi.ticketblox.com
tixtainment.ticketblox.com
tracking.ticketblox.com
festivalito-demo.ticketblox.com
inventoryapi.ticketblox.com
zenexperience.ticketblox.com
clevelander.ticketblox.com
htevents.ticketblox.com
mediakglobal.ticketblox.com
blog.ticketblox.com
edcorlando.ticketblox.com
pyramid.ticketblox.com
videoapi-dev.ticketblox.com
clubdemo.ticketblox.com
test-event-site.ticketblox.com
thinklearningstudio.ticketblox.com
businessbff.ticketblox.com
palacesouthbeach.ticketblox.com
pierceschool.ticketblox.com
theblock.ticketblox.com
berlin-york.ticketblox.com
leo.ticketblox.com
ordersapi.ticketblox.com
ozuna-dev.ticketblox.com
rewardsapi.ticketblox.com
webhooksapi-dev.ticketblox.com
storefrontapi-dev.ticketblox.com
cricket-club.ticketblox.com
plantmagic.ticketblox.com
zamna-dev.ticketblox.com
artistic.ticketblox.com
boomerangapi-dev.ticketblox.com
clownsattack.ticketblox.com
demo.ticketblox.com
eetfestivals.ticketblox.com
videoapi.ticketblox.com
alphadog.ticketblox.com
beyondwonderland.ticketblox.com
mama-demo.ticketblox.com
perfectoverse.ticketblox.com
testing.ticketblox.com
storefrontapi.ticketblox.com
etc-demo.ticketblox.com
hardrockmarbella.ticketblox.com
scanningapi-dev.ticketblox.com
soormademo.ticketblox.com
vote.ticketblox.com
bkfc-demo.ticketblox.com
boomerangapi.ticketblox.com
kaushal-demo.ticketblox.com
rewardsapi-dev.ticketblox.com
tuctuc.ticketblox.com
www.ticketblox.com
conceptnight.ticketblox.com
casbah-demo.ticketblox.com
picklebrawl.ticketblox.com
jfnextjourney.ticketblox.com
spheredemo.ticketblox.com
terry-qa.ticketblox.com
thinklearningstudio-demo.ticketblox.com
vertigo.ticketblox.com
admin.ticketblox.com
eventsapi-dev.ticketblox.com
peakhour.ticketblox.com
sandiego.ticketblox.com
boombastic.ticketblox.com
onenightonly.ticketblox.com
treehaus.ticketblox.com
burnitdowngroup.ticketblox.com
cvesd-demo.ticketblox.com
damian-demo.ticketblox.com
giveaways-demo.ticketblox.com
support.ticketblox.com
nowaar-demo.ticketblox.com
qablox.ticketblox.com
sdfc-demo.ticketblox.com
soormademo2.ticketblox.com
admin-demo.ticketblox.com
authentigrid.ticketblox.com
eetfestivals-demo.ticketblox.com
givemevip.ticketblox.com
hideout.ticketblox.com
huddleup-philly.ticketblox.com
huntqa.ticketblox.com
qa-demo.ticketblox.com
adjustingourcrowns.ticketblox.com
huddleup-atl.ticketblox.com
kidrock-demo.ticketblox.com
sipplantmagic.ticketblox.com
testticket.ticketblox.com
tixtainment-demo.ticketblox.com
giveaways.ticketblox.com
jungle.ticketblox.com
mindhouse.ticketblox.com
perfectoverse-dev.ticketblox.com
tclevent.ticketblox.com
inventoryapi-dev.ticketblox.com
muy.ticketblox.com
neonprairie.ticketblox.com
nftapi-dev.ticketblox.com
qa-test-garry.ticketblox.com
qc-demo.ticketblox.com
catalogapi-dev.ticketblox.com
imaginationage.ticketblox.com
lemonade-demo.ticketblox.com
somasd-demo.ticketblox.com
soularts-demo.ticketblox.com

----- STDERR -----


        │   ├───summary
			human_readable_summary:=== AI Recon Summary Result ===
Target Domain: ticketblox.com
Run ID: 223e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000
Timestamp: 2025-09-02T12:00:29.766109+00:00

==========================

### Executive Summary

Our reconnaissance of ticketblox.com revealed a robust external presence, including numerous subdomains and multiple IP addresses. The principal web services observed are hosted on AWS infrastructure and consist of a web server running Nginx on standard HTTP and HTTPS ports. The domain utilizes Google services for email delivery but lacks DNSSEC protection, which could leave it vulnerable to various types of DNS attacks. A significant number of subdomains, some potentially for development or testing purposes, were uncovered and may contribute to an expanded attack surface. While no direct evidence of vulnerabilities was found, several misconfigurations and exposure indicators suggest a need for closer review and potentially improved security practices.

### Tool Coverage

- **Nmap**: Identified open ports and running services on the primary IP.
- **Dnsrecon**: Provided a detailed view of DNS records and exposed some potential misconfigurations.
- **TheHarvester**: Gathered information about subdomains and associated IP addresses.
- **Subfinder**: Identified additional subdomains, increasing the known scope of the network presence.

### Asset Inventory

- **IPs**:
  - 75.2.70.75
  - 99.83.190.102
  - Extensive IPs (43 total) discovered by TheHarvester.

- **Open Ports**:
  - 80/tcp: HTTP (Nginx)
  - 443/tcp: HTTPS (Nginx)

- **Domains and Subdomains**:
  - ticketblox.com
  - Key subdomains: admin.ticketblox.com, events.ticketblox.com, testing.ticketblox.com, among others (151 identified).

- **DNS Records**:
  - NS: ns35.domaincontrol.com, ns36.domaincontrol.com
  - MX: Utilizing Google's mail servers.
  - TXT: Includes SPF, DMARC records, and verification tags for Google and Facebook.

### Key Findings

- A large number of subdomains suggest a significant attack surface.
- DNSSEC is not configured, leaving the domain susceptible to DNS spoofing threats.
- Infrastructure includes numerous public subdomains likely used for testing or demonstrations, indicating potential exposure points.

### Indicators of Exposure

- Numerous public-facing subdomains, some possibly for non-production use.
- Lack of DNSSEC increases risk of DNS-based attacks.
- An extensive DNS and IP footprint that might not be fully vetted in security practices.

### Security Implications

The lack of DNSSEC may allow attackers to perform man-in-the-middle attacks via DNS spoofing. The wide range of identified subdomains may lead to potential unauthorized access points, particularly if these subdomains host applications with vulnerabilities or configurations intended only for internal use. The presence of development or test subdomains in a production environment without proper security controls may facilitate targeted attacks.

### Severity Rating

**Medium** — While there are no immediate, critical vulnerabilities identified, the absence of DNSSEC and substantial number of public-facing subdomains elevate the security risk profile.

### Recommendations

- Implement DNSSEC to secure DNS communications.
- Conduct an audit of all subdomains and assess the necessary security controls to prevent unauthorized access.
- Regularly review and update server configurations and software to safeguard against vulnerabilities.

### Suggested Next Steps

- Engage in a comprehensive security assessment and penetration testing of the exposed subdomains.
- Verify the necessity and security of each public-facing subdomain.
- Apply security best practices in cloud service usage, ensuring proper configuration.

### Technical Details

- **Nmap Scan**: Open ports on 75.2.70.75 include 80 (http), 443 (https) with Nginx running.
- **DNS Records from Dnsrecon**: Multiple MX records pointing to Google, NS records to GoDaddy's domain control, missing DNSSEC.
- **Subfinder & TheHarvester**: Exposed numerous subdomains and related IPs, demonstrating wide external reach.

			vulnerability_summary: === AI Recon Summary Result ===
Target Domain: hypertrends.com
Run ID: 123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000
Timestamp: 2025-09-09T16:59:25.095891+00:00

==========================

# Vulnerability Assessment for Hypertrends.com

## target_inventory
- host: 107.180.250.162
  hostname: dp-66d1e22ba7.dreamhostps.com
  internet_facing: true
  cloud_provider: unknown
  asn: AS26347
  geo: unknown
  services:
    - port: 22
      protocol: tcp
      service_name: ssh
      product: OpenSSH
      version: 8.9p1 Ubuntu 3ubuntu0.13
      cpe: cpe:/o:linux:linux_kernel
      tls: false
      banner: unknown
      fingerprint: "OS: Linux; protocol 2.0"
      security_headers: { hsts: "unknown", csp: "unknown", x_frame_options: "unknown", x_content_type_options: "unknown" }
    - port: 80
      protocol: tcp
      service_name: http
      product: nginx
      version: unknown
      cpe: cpe:/o:linux:linux_kernel
      tls: false
      banner: nginx
      fingerprint: "nginx"
      security_headers: { hsts: "unknown", csp: "unknown", x_frame_options: "unknown", x_content_type_options: "unknown" }
    - port: 443
      protocol: tcp
      service_name: https
      product: nginx
      version: unknown
      cpe: cpe:/o:linux:linux_kernel
      tls: true
      banner: ssl/http nginx
      fingerprint: "nginx"
      security_headers: { hsts: "unknown", csp: "unknown", x_frame_options: "unknown", x_content_type_options: "unknown" }

## web_surface
- base_urls: ["http://hypertrends.com", "https://www.hypertrends.com"]
- tech_stack: ["nginx"]
- panels: []
- interesting_endpoints: []
- auth_modality: unknown
- login_rate_limit_present: unknown
- waf_or_cdn_present: unknown
- interesting_files: []

## potential_vulnerabilities
- items:
    - host: 107.180.250.162
      port: 22
      service_name: ssh
      title: "OpenSSH Enumeration"
      cve: ["unknown"]
      severity: medium
      exploitability_score: 50
      confidence: high
      eol_unsupported: false
      internet_facing: true
      mappings: 
        cwe_ids: ["CWE-284"]
        mitre_techniques: []
        capec_ids: []
        cisa_kev: false
      evidence_basis: "Based on OpenSSH version detection that could lead to further enumeration or exploitation."
      references: []
      provenance: { source_tool: "nmap_scan", artifact_path: "artifacts/123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000/reconx/nmap_scan/123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000", evidence_hash: "unknown", timestamp: "2025-09-09T16:39:33.745413+00:00" }

## ssl_tls_findings
- protocol_versions: ["TLSv1.2", "TLSv1.3"]
- weak_ciphers: []
- misconfigurations: []
- provenance: { source_tool: "nmap_scan", artifact_path: "artifacts/123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000/reconx/nmap_scan/123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000", evidence_hash: "unknown", timestamp: "2025-09-09T16:39:33.745413+00:00" }

## dns_subdomains
- records_summary: "DNS records and subdomains discovered for hypertrends.com"
  dns_records:
    - type: A
      name: hypertrends.com
      value: 107.180.250.162
      ttl: unknown
    - type: NS
      name: ns17.domaincontrol.com
      value: 97.74.108.9
      ttl: unknown
    - type: NS
      name: ns18.domaincontrol.com
      value: 173.201.76.9
      ttl: unknown
    - type: MX
      name: hypertrends-com.mail.protection.outlook.com
      value: 52.101.11.10
      ttl: unknown
  dns_security:
    dnssec: absent
    spf_record: present
    dmarc_record: unknown
  subdomains_in_scope: ["st-dev.hypertrends.com", "projects.hypertrends.com", "secure-prawn.st-dev.hypertrends.com", "dev-testing.st-dev.hypertrends.com"]
  provenance: { source_tool: "amass", artifact_path: "artifacts/123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000/reconx/amass/123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000", evidence_hash: "unknown", timestamp: "2025-08-29T11:15:06.411723+00:00" }

## evidence_map
- entries: 
  - { key: "OpenSSH_8.9p1 Ubuntu 3ubuntu0.13", source_tool: "nmap_scan", artifact_path: "artifacts/123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000/reconx/nmap_scan/123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000", evidence_hash: "unknown", timestamp: "2025-09-09T16:39:33.745413+00:00", command_line_hint: "nmap -sV -Pn hypertrends.com", byte_range: "0-4096", excerpt: "OpenSSH 8.9p1 Ubuntu 3ubuntu0.13 (Ubuntu Linux; protocol 2.0)" }
  - { key: "nginx", source_tool: "nmap_scan", artifact_path: "artifacts/123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000/reconx/nmap_scan/123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000", evidence_hash: "unknown", timestamp: "2025-09-09T16:39:33.745413+00:00", command_line_hint: "nmap -sV -Pn hypertrends.com", byte_range: "4096-8192", excerpt: "80/tcp open http nginx" }

## data_quality
- warnings: ["API keys missing for several theHarvester modules", "DNSSEC not configured for hypertrends.com"]
- negatives: ["no weak ciphers found on 443"]

---

BEGIN_JSON
{
  "domain": "hypertrends.com",
  "generated_at": "2025-09-09T16:56:25.502674+00:00",
  "target_inventory": [
    {
      "host": "107.180.250.162",
      "hostname": "dp-66d1e22ba7.dreamhostps.com",
      "internet_facing": true,
      "cloud_provider": "unknown",
      "asn": "AS26347",
      "geo": "unknown",
      "services": [
        {
          "port": 22,
          "protocol": "tcp",
          "service_name": "ssh",
          "product": "OpenSSH",
          "version": "8.9p1 Ubuntu 3ubuntu0.13",
          "cpe": "cpe:/o:linux:linux_kernel",
          "tls": false,
          "banner": "unknown",
          "fingerprint": "OS: Linux; protocol 2.0",
          "security_headers": { "hsts": "unknown", "csp": "unknown", "x_frame_options": "unknown", "x_content_type_options": "unknown" }
        },
        {
          "port": 80,
          "protocol": "tcp",
          "service_name": "http",
          "product": "nginx",
          "version": "unknown",
          "cpe": "cpe:/o:linux:linux_kernel",
          "tls": false,
          "banner": "nginx",
          "fingerprint": "nginx",
          "security_headers": { "hsts": "unknown", "csp": "unknown", "x_frame_options": "unknown", "x_content_type_options": "unknown" }
        },
        {
          "port": 443,
          "protocol": "tcp",
          "service_name": "https",
          "product": "nginx",
          "version": "unknown",
          "cpe": "cpe:/o:linux:linux_kernel",
          "tls": true,
          "banner": "ssl/http nginx",
          "fingerprint": "nginx",
          "security_headers": { "hsts": "unknown", "csp": "unknown", "x_frame_options": "unknown", "x_content_type_options": "unknown" }
        }
      ]
    }
  ],
  "web_surface": {
    "base_urls": ["http://hypertrends.com", "https://www.hypertrends.com"],
    "tech_stack": ["nginx"],
    "panels": [],
    "interesting_endpoints": [],
    "auth_modality": "unknown",
    "login_rate_limit_present": "unknown",
    "waf_or_cdn_present": "unknown",
    "interesting_files": []
  },
  "potential_vulnerabilities": [
    {
      "host": "107.180.250.162",
      "port": 22,
      "service_name": "ssh",
      "title": "OpenSSH Enumeration",
      "cve": ["unknown"],
      "severity": "medium",
      "exploitability_score": 50,
      "confidence": "high",
      "eol_unsupported": false,
      "internet_facing": true,
      "mappings": { "cwe_ids": ["CWE-284"], "mitre_techniques": [], "capec_ids": [], "cisa_kev": false },
      "evidence_basis": "Based on OpenSSH version detection that could lead to further enumeration or exploitation.",
      "references": [],
      "provenance": { "source_tool": "nmap_scan", "artifact_path": "artifacts/123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000/reconx/nmap_scan/123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000", "evidence_hash": "unknown", "timestamp": "2025-09-09T16:39:33.745413+00:00" }
    }
  ],
  "ssl_tls_findings": {
    "protocol_versions": ["TLSv1.2", "TLSv1.3"],
    "weak_ciphers": [],
    "misconfigurations": [],
    "provenance": { "source_tool": "nmap_scan", "artifact_path": "artifacts/123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000/reconx/nmap_scan/123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000", "evidence_hash": "unknown", "timestamp": "2025-09-09T16:39:33.745413+00:00" }
  },
  "dns_subdomains": {
    "records_summary": "DNS records and subdomains discovered for hypertrends.com",
    "dns_records": [
      { "type": "A", "name": "hypertrends.com", "value": "107.180.250.162", "ttl": "unknown" },
      { "type": "NS", "name": "ns17.domaincontrol.com", "value": "97.74.108.9", "ttl": "unknown" },
      { "type": "NS", "name": "ns18.domaincontrol.com", "value": "173.201.76.9", "ttl": "unknown" },
      { "type": "MX", "name": "hypertrends-com.mail.protection.outlook.com", "value": "52.101.11.10", "ttl": "unknown" }
    ],
    "dns_security": { "dnssec": "absent", "spf_record": "present", "dmarc_record": "unknown" },
    "subdomains_in_scope": ["st-dev.hypertrends.com", "projects.hypertrends.com", "secure-prawn.st-dev.hypertrends.com", "dev-testing.st-dev.hypertrends.com"],
    "provenance": { "source_tool": "amass", "artifact_path": "artifacts/123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000/reconx/amass/123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000", "evidence_hash": "unknown", "timestamp": "2025-08-29T11:15:06.411723+00:00" }
  },
  "evidence_map": {
    "entries": [
      { "key": "OpenSSH_8.9p1 Ubuntu 3ubuntu0.13", "source_tool": "nmap_scan", "artifact_path": "artifacts/123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000/reconx/nmap_scan/123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000", "evidence_hash": "unknown", "timestamp": "2025-09-09T16:39:33.745413+00:00", "command_line_hint": "nmap -sV -Pn hypertrends.com", "byte_range": "0-4096", "excerpt": "OpenSSH 8.9p1 Ubuntu 3ubuntu0.13 (Ubuntu Linux; protocol 2.0)" },
      { "key": "nginx", "source_tool": "nmap_scan", "artifact_path": "artifacts/123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000/reconx/nmap_scan/123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000", "evidence_hash": "unknown", "timestamp": "2025-09-09T16:39:33.745413+00:00", "command_line_hint": "nmap -sV -Pn hypertrends.com", "byte_range": "4096-8192", "excerpt": "80/tcp open http nginx" }
    ]
  },
  "data_quality": {
    "warnings": ["API keys missing for several theHarvester modules", "DNSSEC not configured for hypertrends.com"],
    "negatives": ["no weak ciphers found on 443"]
  },
  "notes": ["unknown values are present where evidence is insufficient"]
}
END_JSON

        │   └───theharvester
				123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000:===== Theharvester Metadata =====
Tool      : theharvester
Target    : hypertrends.com
Status    : SUCCESS
Command   : theHarvester -b all -l 200 -d hypertrends.com
Duration in seconds : 63.229822s
Start Time: 2025-09-09T16:36:26.852601+00:00
End Time  : 2025-09-09T16:37:30.082423+00:00
==========================

----- STDOUT -----
Read proxies.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/proxies.yaml
*******************************************************************
*  _   _                                            _             *
* | |_| |__   ___    /\  /\__ _ _ ____   _____  ___| |_ ___ _ __  *
* | __|  _ \ / _ \  / /_/ / _` | '__\ \ / / _ \/ __| __/ _ \ '__| *
* | |_| | | |  __/ / __  / (_| | |   \ V /  __/\__ \ ||  __/ |    *
*  \__|_| |_|\___| \/ /_/ \__,_|_|    \_/ \___||___/\__\___|_|    *
*                                                                 *
* theHarvester 4.8.2                                              *
* Coded by Christian Martorella                                   *
* Edge-Security Research                                          *
* cmartorella@edge-security.com                                   *
*                                                                 *
*******************************************************************

[*] Target: hypertrends.com 

Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for bevigil. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for bufferoverun. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for Censys ID and/or Secret. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for criminalip. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for Dehashed. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for DNSDumpster. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for fullhunt. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml
Error initializing SearchGithubCode: 
[!] Missing API key for Github. 

[!] Missing API key for Github. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for Hunter. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for hunterhow. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for Intelx. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for netlas. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for onyphe. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for PentestTools. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for ProjectDiscovery. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for RocketReach. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for Securitytrail. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for Shodan. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for Tomba Key and/or Secret. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for Venacus. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for virustotal. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for whoisxml. 
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml

[!] Missing API key for zoomeye. 
Error in BuiltWith search: 200, message='Attempt to decode JSON with unexpected mimetype: text/json; charset=utf-8', url='https://api.builtwith.com/v21/api.json?KEY=None&LOOKUP=hypertrends.com'
[*] Searching Builtwith. 
An exception has occurred: Server disconnected
[*] Searching Baidu. 
	Searching 0 results.
[*] Searching Bing. 
[*] Searching Brave. 
	Searching results.
[*] Searching Certspotter. 
[*] Searching Duckduckgo. 
Error in HaveIBeenPwned search: Cannot serialize non-str key None
[*] Searching Haveibeenpwned. 
[*] Searching CRTsh. 
[*] Searching Leaklookup. 
[*] Searching Hackertarget. 
[!] Missing API key for SecurityScorecard.
Error in SecurityScorecard search: 
[!] Missing API key for SecurityScorecard. 
[*] Searching Securityscorecard. 
[*] Searching Otx. 
[*] Searching Rapiddns. 
Sitedossier module has triggered a captcha on first iteration, no results can be found.
Change IPs, manually solve the captcha, or wait before rerunning Sitedossier module
[*] Searching Sitedossier. 
[*] Searching Subdomaincenter. 
An exception has occurred: 500, message='Attempt to decode JSON with unexpected mimetype: text/html; charset=utf-8', url='https://api.threatminer.org/v2/domain.php?q=hypertrends.com&rt=5'
[*] Searching Subdomainfinderc99. 
[*] Searching Urlscan. 
[*] Searching Yahoo. 

[*] ASNS found: 1
--------------------
AS26347

[*] Interesting Urls found: 1
--------------------
https://www.hypertrends.com/

[*] No LinkedIn users found.



[*] LinkedIn Links found: 0
---------------------

[*] IPs found: 407
-------------------
100.24.111.83
100.24.138.75
100.24.172.149
100.24.211.179
100.24.245.87
100.25.187.92
107.180.250.162
107.20.122.74
107.21.141.51
107.21.169.105
107.21.42.142
107.22.71.156
107.22.83.63
107.23.109.122
107.23.17.243
107.23.194.180
107.23.22.11
173.236.239.251
174.120.234.61
174.129.17.212
18.204.0.132
18.205.136.131
18.205.50.66
18.208.90.16
18.209.139.42
18.209.194.147
18.210.174.217
18.210.249.214
18.210.45.59
18.211.44.7
18.211.52.211
18.213.153.250
18.213.8.119
18.214.117.93
18.214.143.156
18.214.172.141
18.214.21.202
18.214.224.85
18.214.24.45
18.214.30.60
18.232.16.124
18.232.19.132
18.233.142.45
18.233.252.13
18.235.235.159
184.72.181.209
23.20.186.191
23.20.199.74
23.21.177.247
23.21.86.69
23.21.98.133
23.22.22.35
3.208.116.223
3.209.102.133
3.209.103.125
3.209.146.206
3.209.233.244
3.210.159.45
3.210.49.162
3.210.91.142
3.210.96.22
3.211.108.54
3.211.172.13
3.211.188.223
3.211.64.57
3.212.187.197
3.212.86.29
3.213.106.9
3.213.59.187
3.213.86.187
3.214.133.186
3.214.200.89
3.214.88.14
3.215.49.223
3.216.163.174
3.216.236.103
3.216.47.72
3.217.47.146
3.218.171.58
3.218.218.88
3.219.129.24
3.219.77.251
3.221.165.48
3.221.23.121
3.221.47.252
3.222.126.156
3.222.36.129
3.222.38.37
3.222.92.54
3.223.236.10
3.223.250.175
3.224.180.95
3.224.185.250
3.224.201.98
3.224.85.203
3.225.111.144
3.225.138.225
3.225.140.187
3.225.182.196
3.225.74.246
3.225.99.61
3.226.21.128
3.227.162.24
3.228.137.134
3.228.193.133
3.228.29.64
3.229.201.77
3.229.32.182
3.229.55.76
3.230.140.106
3.230.246.122
3.230.64.162
3.231.39.232
3.232.144.103
3.233.138.232
3.233.167.126
3.233.211.183
3.233.25.116
3.234.127.194
3.234.13.17
3.234.165.67
3.234.83.177
3.234.92.218
3.90.73.83
3.93.106.214
3.94.18.142
3.94.23.154
3.97.165.243
34.192.224.11
34.192.247.171
34.193.170.208
34.193.172.197
34.193.71.136
34.193.73.178
34.194.223.212
34.194.9.202
34.195.28.87
34.195.37.70
34.195.4.154
34.196.149.224
34.196.162.48
34.196.3.67
34.197.10.205
34.197.118.133
34.197.152.214
34.197.199.222
34.198.139.142
34.198.96.199
34.199.159.100
34.199.238.168
34.199.57.202
34.200.115.26
34.200.146.114
34.200.50.145
34.200.56.105
34.200.99.97
34.201.95.223
34.202.66.26
34.202.92.249
34.203.127.233
34.203.170.48
34.203.182.207
34.204.118.114
34.204.224.153
34.205.165.83
34.205.168.85
34.205.204.64
34.205.253.215
34.205.83.66
34.206.139.96
34.206.247.172
34.207.35.114
34.224.240.220
34.225.67.7
34.226.230.142
34.226.89.65
34.226.99.91
34.227.253.166
34.230.148.180
34.231.103.85
34.231.17.230
34.231.17.251
34.232.121.234
34.232.166.77
34.233.177.67
34.233.180.143
34.233.192.66
34.234.206.146
34.235.106.8
34.235.250.223
34.236.110.93
34.236.218.208
34.236.224.154
34.237.10.11
34.237.187.184
34.237.195.177
34.237.27.240
34.237.36.193
34.237.88.244
34.238.108.242
34.239.2.160
34.239.225.186
34.239.76.91
34.239.87.143
34.239.87.93
35.168.100.33
35.168.74.113
35.169.70.174
35.170.127.22
35.170.163.120
35.171.107.176
35.171.118.29
35.171.221.181
35.171.234.17
35.171.80.235
35.172.82.207
35.173.106.24
35.174.181.247
35.174.95.105
35.175.15.236
35.175.165.47
35.175.68.238
44.193.148.56
44.194.252.114
44.195.13.153
44.196.166.0
44.196.33.111
44.197.222.6
44.197.33.194
44.197.58.91
44.198.243.12
44.199.156.39
44.199.24.206
44.205.229.191
44.215.46.28
50.17.243.32
50.17.65.50
50.17.66.156
50.19.244.105
50.19.56.200
50.19.8.240
52.0.135.37
52.0.163.22
52.0.197.216
52.0.44.7
52.1.132.136
52.1.3.148
52.2.114.243
52.2.193.138
52.2.199.191
52.2.208.156
52.2.3.251
52.2.94.213
52.20.144.196
52.20.23.52
52.20.94.210
52.200.111.148
52.200.204.112
52.200.72.81
52.201.101.50
52.202.136.171
52.203.137.60
52.203.162.69
52.203.218.114
52.204.192.228
52.204.5.46
52.205.149.111
52.205.161.14
52.205.230.224
52.205.67.193
52.206.81.193
52.207.127.201
52.207.127.253
52.207.26.234
52.21.251.131
52.21.78.166
52.22.119.115
52.22.141.131
52.22.144.32
52.22.171.250
52.22.187.210
52.22.197.147
52.22.228.219
52.22.255.93
52.22.89.4
52.23.101.112
52.23.78.13
52.4.112.193
52.4.139.244
52.4.166.102
52.4.85.239
52.44.115.142
52.44.198.177
52.44.218.135
52.45.109.131
52.45.199.8
52.5.227.91
52.5.56.90
52.5.65.243
52.54.25.188
52.54.28.67
52.55.248.244
52.55.31.12
52.55.61.158
52.7.173.247
52.70.128.13
52.70.222.26
52.70.223.151
52.71.232.252
52.71.62.1
52.72.136.55
52.73.105.226
52.73.106.147
52.73.164.191
52.73.76.177
52.86.144.128
52.86.214.18
52.86.96.239
54.144.35.100
54.144.58.127
54.144.75.21
54.145.105.230
54.145.111.226
54.145.24.244
54.145.29.75
54.145.43.190
54.146.155.30
54.146.187.66
54.147.170.51
54.156.18.5
54.158.165.117
54.158.225.152
54.160.110.104
54.161.48.103
54.162.131.225
54.162.132.107
54.163.80.183
54.164.105.18
54.164.130.112
54.164.215.223
54.164.217.191
54.165.149.34
54.165.198.166
54.165.5.35
54.166.112.14
54.167.137.22
54.167.209.1
54.172.140.180
54.172.197.243
54.173.183.123
54.173.200.143
54.174.176.100
54.175.20.193
54.175.249.81
54.197.179.214
54.197.180.5
54.197.20.93
54.198.28.47
54.204.143.153
54.209.199.139
54.210.1.70
54.211.221.240
54.221.190.236
54.221.234.253
54.224.132.196
54.224.242.128
54.225.140.111
54.225.240.217
54.227.131.249
54.227.2.104
54.227.232.6
54.234.115.125
54.234.168.235
54.234.85.73
54.235.37.101
54.235.75.14
54.236.197.169
54.236.83.207
54.236.87.240
54.237.197.14
54.242.20.67
54.243.107.180
54.243.111.76
54.243.194.152
54.81.24.154
54.83.184.41
54.83.24.207
54.84.10.49
54.84.158.238
54.84.181.203
54.84.213.62
54.85.105.127
54.86.38.201
54.88.101.254
54.88.16.104
54.88.194.58
54.88.78.30
54.89.12.2
54.91.90.96
54.92.151.213
54.92.239.238
72.44.53.82
72.47.228.109
76.76.21.123
76.76.21.93
99.79.27.223

[*] No emails found.

[*] No people found.

[*] Hosts found: 195
---------------------
*.hypertrends.com
aa-test.st-dev.hypertrends.com
abc-incl.st-dev.hypertrends.com
absolute-boa.st-dev.hypertrends.com
accdone.st-dev.hypertrends.com
accurate-yak.st-dev.hypertrends.com
ace-dingo.st-dev.hypertrends.com
advanced-sheep.st-dev.hypertrends.com
aidthree.st-dev.hypertrends.com
aneworga.st-dev.hypertrends.com
anytown-inc-2.st-dev.hypertrends.com
anytown-inc-can-6fdcee.st-dev.hypertrends.com
anytown-inc-can.st-dev.hypertrends.com
anytown-inc-canada.st-dev.hypertrends.com
atida.st-dev.hypertrends.com
atidfive.st-dev.hypertrends.com
atidfour.st-dev.hypertrends.com
atidnine.st-dev.hypertrends.com
atidseven.st-dev.hypertrends.com
atidsix.st-dev.hypertrends.com
atidt.st-dev.hypertrends.com
bayern-sub.st-dev.hypertrends.com
bayern.st-dev.hypertrends.com
ber-provision-two.st-dev.hypertrends.com
berlin-new-child.st-dev.hypertrends.com
berlin-partner1.st-dev.hypertrends.com
berlin-sub.st-dev.hypertrends.com
berlin.st-dev.hypertrends.com
big-bull-co.st-dev.hypertrends.com
bkm-industries.st-dev.hypertrends.com
bros-group.st-dev.hypertrends.com
bruce-sub-ent.st-dev.hypertrends.com
bruce.st-dev.hypertrends.com
brutus.st-dev.hypertrends.com
ca-dev-test.st-ca-dev.hypertrends.com
california-inc-24406b.st-dev.hypertrends.com
california-inc.st-dev.hypertrends.com
canada-test-inc.st-dev.hypertrends.com
caretabsapidev.hypertrends.com
ccztc247t.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-1-097108.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-1.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-10.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-2-36d43b.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-3-414709.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-3-9e82ac.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-3.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-4.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-5.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-6.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-7.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-8.st-dev.hypertrends.com
child-9.st-dev.hypertrends.com
classic-sheepdog.st-dev.hypertrends.com
comic-bass.st-dev.hypertrends.com
communal-ladybird.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cricket-wireless.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cs.st-dev.hypertrends.com
curious-sunfish.st-dev.hypertrends.com
customer.st-dev.hypertrends.com
customerorginpartn.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cute-walrus.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cx-cp-child.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cxray-and-cphisher.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cyber-hub.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cybercatch-demo-canada.st-dev.hypertrends.com
cybercatch-demo.st-dev.hypertrends.com
dan-ent.st-dev.hypertrends.com
dashing-pug.st-dev.hypertrends.com
deciding-hare.st-dev.hypertrends.com
demo-flag.st-dev.hypertrends.com
demo-inc.st-dev.hypertrends.com
destined-pony.st-dev.hypertrends.com
dev-testing.st-dev.hypertrends.com
dtest.st-dev.hypertrends.com
easy-alpaca.st-dev.hypertrends.com
enabled-crawfish.st-dev.hypertrends.com
enough-anteater.st-dev.hypertrends.com
evident-bream.st-dev.hypertrends.com
evolved-grub.st-dev.hypertrends.com
fast-mastiff.st-dev.hypertrends.com
flowing-akita.st-dev.hypertrends.com
flowing-hedgehog.st-dev.hypertrends.com
flying-bug.st-dev.hypertrends.com
fond-collie.st-dev.hypertrends.com
ford-motors-corp.st-dev.hypertrends.com
grand-seagull.st-dev.hypertrends.com
great-grouper.st-dev.hypertrends.com
green-ltd-d73df4.st-dev.hypertrends.com
honest-leopard.st-dev.hypertrends.com
hub-dev.hypertrends.com
hyperdailyapi-dev.hypertrends.com
improved-burro.st-dev.hypertrends.com
inox.st-dev.hypertrends.com
itc.st-dev.hypertrends.com
james-test-a19dc3.st-dev.hypertrends.com
james-test-dev.st-dev.hypertrends.com
james-test.st-dev.hypertrends.com
joint-beetle.st-dev.hypertrends.com
july-31-1.st-dev.hypertrends.com
july4.st-dev.hypertrends.com
ka-test-77859d.st-dev.hypertrends.com
lic-group.st-dev.hypertrends.com
live-hookworm.st-dev.hypertrends.com
logical-bear.st-dev.hypertrends.com
lone-star-corp.st-dev.hypertrends.com
magical-jackass.st-dev.hypertrends.com
mars-inc.st-dev.hypertrends.com
msp1cust2oct.st-dev.hypertrends.com
msporg2customer2.st-dev.hypertrends.com
mspporg1customer1.st-dev.hypertrends.com
mspporg1customer2.st-dev.hypertrends.com
mspporg1customer3.st-dev.hypertrends.com
my-test-org-two.st-dev.hypertrends.com
neat-anteater.st-dev.hypertrends.com
normal-arachnid.st-dev.hypertrends.com
noted-raptor.st-dev.hypertrends.com
okta-inc.st-dev.hypertrends.com
onetesta-e5f651.st-dev.hypertrends.com
onetesta-e5f651.st-dev.hypertrends.com:34.192.150.170
onetesta-e5f651.st-dev.hypertrends.com:34.193.2.123
onetesta-e5f651.st-dev.hypertrends.com:34.237.205.218
onetesta-e5f651.st-dev.hypertrends.com:52.55.234.251
onetesta-e5f651.st-dev.hypertrends.com:54.164.56.117
onetesta-e5f651.st-dev.hypertrends.com:75.101.232.18
onetesta.st-dev.hypertrends.com
orange-inc.st-dev.hypertrends.com
org-2-9bb9ea.st-dev.hypertrends.com
org-2.st-dev.hypertrends.com
org-3-165513.st-dev.hypertrends.com
org-4.st-dev.hypertrends.com
org-a.st-dev.hypertrends.com
org-c.st-dev.hypertrends.com
organic-pig.st-dev.hypertrends.com
organization-b.st-dev.hypertrends.com
oxford-enterprise.st-dev.hypertrends.com
partner-org-1-081583.st-dev.hypertrends.com
partner-org-2.st-dev.hypertrends.com
partner.st-dev.hypertrends.com
paytm.st-dev.hypertrends.com
perfect-gazelle.st-dev.hypertrends.com
pet-firefly.st-dev.hypertrends.com
poetic-urchin.st-dev.hypertrends.com
provision-test-20e14e.st-dev.hypertrends.com
provision-test.st-dev.hypertrends.com
qa-org.st-dev.hypertrends.com
rama-steel-tube.st-dev.hypertrends.com
refined-raptor.st-dev.hypertrends.com
rich-earwig.st-dev.hypertrends.com
rich-jay.st-dev.hypertrends.com
right-oriole.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sample.st-dev.hypertrends.com
secure-prawn.st-dev.hypertrends.com
secure-rhino.st-dev.hypertrends.com
solid-wildcat.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sought-emu.st-dev.hypertrends.com
ssa-cust1.st-dev.hypertrends.com
ssa-ds.st-dev.hypertrends.com
st-dev.hypertrends.com
stirring-monster.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sub-1-0f20c2.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sub-1-fdfca9.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sub-3.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sub-dan.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sub-ds.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sub-sub-dan.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sub-t-rex.st-dev.hypertrends.com
sub.st-dev.hypertrends.com
superb-racer.st-dev.hypertrends.com
superfly-inc.st-dev.hypertrends.com
t-rex.st-dev.hypertrends.com
tapi.hypertrends.com
tapi.hypertrends.com:52.55.61.158
tata.st-dev.hypertrends.com
temp-org-202d.st-dev.hypertrends.com
test-berlin-child.st-dev.hypertrends.com
test-payment-workflow.st-dev.hypertrends.com
test-slug.st-dev.hypertrends.com
test.st-dev.hypertrends.com
tester-group.st-dev.hypertrends.com
tester.st-dev.hypertrends.com
testing-again.st-dev.hypertrends.com
testing-c247.st-dev.hypertrends.com
thretestcxautodown.st-dev.hypertrends.com
tough-peacock.st-dev.hypertrends.com
twotestadev.st-dev.hypertrends.com
tz-3-09eb56.st-dev.hypertrends.com
tz-child.st-dev.hypertrends.com
venom.st-dev.hypertrends.com
vital-barnacle.st-dev.hypertrends.com
vocal-baboon.st-dev.hypertrends.com
worthy-shepherd.st-dev.hypertrends.com
zap-hub-test-org.st-dev.hypertrends.com
zcustomer-5dc983.st-dev.hypertrends.com
zcustomer.st-dev.hypertrends.com

[*] Starting API endpoint scanning with wordlist: /opt/homebrew/Cellar/theharvester/4.8.2/libexec/lib/python3.13/site-packages/theHarvester/data/wordlists/api_endpoints.txt

[*] API Endpoints found: 0

[*] Interesting endpoints (200, 201, 202): 0

[*] Endpoints requiring authentication: 0

[*] Detected API versions: 0

[*] Rate limited endpoints: 0

[*] HTTP methods used: 

[*] HTTP status codes encountered: 

[+] API scanning completed successfully.

[*] Performing SecurityScorecard scan...
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml
[!] Missing API key for SecurityScorecard.
Error in SecurityScorecard search: 
[!] Missing API key for SecurityScorecard. 
An exception has occurred in SecurityScorecard scanning: 'SearchSecurityScorecard' object has no attribute 'get_ips'

[*] Performing BuiltWith scan...
Read api-keys.yaml from /Users/ayushi/.theHarvester/api-keys.yaml
Error in BuiltWith search: 200, message='Attempt to decode JSON with unexpected mimetype: text/json; charset=utf-8', url='https://api.builtwith.com/v21/api.json?KEY=None&LOOKUP=hypertrends.com'

----- STDERR -----
2025-09-09 22:07:12,078 - api_endpoints - INFO - Starting API endpoint scan for hypertrends.com
2025-09-09 22:07:12,079 - api_endpoints - INFO - Detected schema for hypertrends.com: http
2025-09-09 22:07:12,079 - api_endpoints - INFO - Prepared 1834 endpoints to scan with concurrency 20
2025-09-09 22:07:12,096 - api_endpoints - INFO - API endpoint scan completed. Found 0 endpoints.


        └───vulnx
            ├───metasploit
			123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000:===== Metasploit Metadata =====
Tool      : metasploit
Target    : hypertrends.com
Status    : SUCCESS
Command   : N/A
Start Time: 2025-09-09T10:16:20.327588+00:00
End Time  : 2025-09-09T10:17:36.424827+00:00
Duration in seconds : 76.097239s
==========================

----- STDOUT -----
==== Metasploit Summary ====
Target   : hypertrends.com
Modules  : 26
Succeeded: 26
Failed   : 0

===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/http/blind_sql_query (port 443) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/http/blind_sql_query
Call trans opt: received. 2-19-98 13:24:18 REC:Loc

     Trace program: running

           wake up, Neo...
        the matrix has you
      follow the white rabbit.

          knock, knock, Neo.

                        (`.         ,-,
                        ` `.    ,;' /
                         `.  ,'/ .'
                          `. X /.'
                .-;--''--.._` ` (
              .'            /   `
             ,           ` '   Q '
             ,         ,   `._    \
          ,.|         '     `-.;_'
          :  . `  ;    `  ` --,.._;
           ' `    ,   )   .'
              `._ ,  '   /_
                 ; ,''-,;' ``-
                  ``-..__``--`

                             https://metasploit.com


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 443
RPORT => 443

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...


===== MODULE: auxiliary/gather/enum_dns (port 53) =====

> use auxiliary/gather/enum_dns

 ______________________________________________________________________________
|                                                                              |
|                   METASPLOIT CYBER MISSILE COMMAND V5                        |
|______________________________________________________________________________|
      \                                  /                      /
       \     .                          /                      /            x
        \                              /                      /
         \                            /          +           /
          \            +             /                      /
           *                        /                      /
                                   /      .               /
    X                             /                      /            X
                                 /                     ###
                                /                     # % #
                               /                       ###
                      .       /
     .                       /      .            *           .
                            /
                           *
                  +                       *

                                       ^
####      __     __     __          #######         __     __     __        ####
####    /    \ /    \ /    \      ###########     /    \ /    \ /    \      ####
################################################################################
################################################################################
# WAVE 5 ######## SCORE 31337 ################################## HIGH FFFFFFFF #
################################################################################
                                                           https://metasploit.com


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
[!] Unknown datastore option: RHOSTS.
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 53
RPORT => 53

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/ssh/libssh_auth_bypass (port 22) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/ssh/libssh_auth_bypass
# cowsay++
 ____________
< metasploit >
 ------------
       \   ,__,
        \  (oo)____
           (__)    )\
              ||--|| *


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project

[*] Using action Shell - view all 2 actions with the show actions command

> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 22
RPORT => 22

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/ftp/ftp_version (port 21) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/ftp/ftp_version

*Neutrino_Cannon*PrettyBeefy*PostalTime*binbash*deadastronauts*EvilBunnyWrote*L1T*Mail.ru*() { :;}; echo vulnerable*
*Team sorceror*ADACTF*BisonSquad*socialdistancing*LeukeTeamNaam*OWASP Moncton*Alegori*exit*Vampire Bunnies*APT593*
*QuePasaZombiesAndFriends*NetSecBG*coincoin*ShroomZ*Slow Coders*Scavenger Security*Bruh*NoTeamName*Terminal Cult*
*edspiner*BFG*MagentaHats*0x01DA*Kaczuszki*AlphaPwners*FILAHA*Raffaela*HackSurYvette*outout*HackSouth*Corax*yeeb0iz*
*SKUA*Cyber COBRA*flaghunters*0xCD*AI Generated*CSEC*p3nnm3d*IFS*CTF_Circle*InnotecLabs*baadf00d*BitSwitchers*0xnoobs*
*ItPwns - Intergalactic Team of PWNers*PCCsquared*fr334aks*runCMD*0x194*Kapital Krakens*ReadyPlayer1337*Team 443*
*H4CKSN0W*InfOUsec*CTF Community*DCZia*NiceWay*0xBlueSky*ME3*Tipi'Hack*Porg Pwn Platoon*Hackerty*hackstreetboys*
*ideaengine007*eggcellent*H4x*cw167*localhorst*Original Cyan Lonkero*Sad_Pandas*FalseFlag*OurHeartBleedsOrange*SBWASP*
*Cult of the Dead Turkey*doesthismatter*crayontheft*Cyber Mausoleum*scripterz*VetSec*norbot*Delta Squad Zero*Mukesh*
*x00-x00*BlackCat*ARESx*cxp*vaporsec*purplehax*RedTeam@MTU*UsalamaTeam*vitamink*RISC*forkbomb444*hownowbrowncow*
*etherknot*cheesebaguette*downgrade*FR!3ND5*badfirmware*Cut3Dr4g0n*dc615*nora*Polaris One*team*hail hydra*Takoyaki*
*Sudo Society*incognito-flash*TheScientists*Tea Party*Reapers of Pwnage*OldBoys*M0ul3Fr1t1B13r3*bearswithsaws*DC540*
*iMosuke*Infosec_zitro*CrackTheFlag*TheConquerors*Asur*4fun*Rogue-CTF*Cyber*TMHC*The_Pirhacks*btwIuseArch*MadDawgs*
*HInc*The Pighty Mangolins*CCSF_RamSec*x4n0n*x0rc3r3rs*emehacr*Ph4n70m_R34p3r*humziq*Preeminence*UMGC*ByteBrigade*
*TeamFastMark*Towson-Cyberkatz*meow*xrzhev*PA Hackers*Kuolema*Nakateam*L0g!c B0mb*NOVA-InfoSec*teamstyle*Panic*
*B0NG0R3*                                                                                    *Les Cadets Rouges*buf*
*Les Tontons Fl4gueurs*                                                                      *404 : Flag Not Found*
*' UNION SELECT 'password*      _________                __                                  *OCD247*Sparkle Pony* 
*burner_herz0g*                 \_   ___ \_____  _______/  |_ __ _________   ____            *Kill$hot*ConEmu*
*here_there_be_trolls*          /    \  \/\__  \ \____ \   __\  |  \_  __ \_/ __ \           *;echo"hacked"*
*r4t5_*6rung4nd4*NYUSEC*        \     \____/ __ \|  |_> >  | |  |  /|  | \/\  ___/           *karamel4e*
*IkastenIO*TWC*balkansec*        \______  (____  /   __/|__| |____/ |__|    \___  >          *cybersecurity.li*
*TofuEelRoll*Trash Pandas*              \/     \/|__|                           \/           *OneManArmy*cyb3r_w1z4rd5*
*Astra*Got Schwartz?*tmux*                  ___________.__                                   *AreYouStuck*Mr.Robot.0*
*\nls*Juicy white peach*                    \__    ___/|  |__   ____                         *EPITA Rennes*
*HackerKnights*                               |    |   |  |  \_/ __ \                        *guildOfGengar*Titans*
*Pentest Rangers*                             |    |   |   Y  \  ___/                        *The Libbyrators*
*placeholder name*bitup*                      |____|   |___|  /\___  >                       *JeffTadashi*Mikeal*
*UCASers*onotch*                                            \/     \/                        *ky_dong_day_song*
*NeNiNuMmOk*                              ___________.__                                     *JustForFun!*
*Maux de tête*LalaNG*                     \_   _____/|  | _____     ____                     *g3tsh3Lls0on*
*crr0tz*z3r0p0rn*clueless*                 |    __)  |  | \__  \   / ___\                    *Phở Đặc Biệt*Paradox*
*HackWara*                                 |     \   |  |__/ __ \_/ /_/  >                   *KaRIPux*inf0sec*
*Kugelschreibertester*                     \___  /   |____(____  /\___  /                    *bluehens*Antoine77*
*icemasters*                                   \/              \//_____/                     *genxy*TRADE_NAMES*
*Spartan's Ravens*                       _______________   _______________                   *BadByte*fontwang_tw*
*g0ldd1gg3rs*pappo*                     \_____  \   _  \  \_____  \   _  \                   *ghoti*
*Les CRACKS*c0dingRabbits*               /  ____/  /_\  \  /  ____/  /_\  \                  *LinuxRiders*   
*2Cr4Sh*RecycleBin*                     /       \  \_/   \/       \  \_/   \                 *Jalan Durian*
*ExploitStudio*                         \_______ \_____  /\_______ \_____  /                 *WPICSC*logaritm*
*Car RamRod*0x41414141*                         \/     \/         \/     \/                  *Orv1ll3*team-fm4dd*
*Björkson*FlyingCircus*                                                                      *PwnHub*H4X0R*Yanee*
*Securifera*hot cocoa*                                                                       *Et3rnal*PelarianCP*
*n00bytes*DNC&G*guildzero*dorko*tv*42*{EHF}*CarpeDien*Flamin-Go*BarryWhite*XUcyber*FernetInjection*DCcurity*
*Mars Explorer*ozen_cfw*Fat Boys*Simpatico*nzdjb*Isec-U.O*The Pomorians*T35H*H@wk33*JetJ*OrangeStar*Team Corgi*
*D0g3*0itch*OffRes*LegionOfRinf*UniWA*wgucoo*Pr0ph3t*L0ner*_n00bz*OSINT Punchers*Tinfoil Hats*Hava*Team Neu*
*Cyb3rDoctor*Techlock Inc*kinakomochi*DubbelDopper*bubbasnmp*w*Gh0st$*tyl3rsec*LUCKY_CLOVERS*ev4d3rx10-team*ir4n6*
*PEQUI_ctf*HKLBGD*L3o*5 bits short of a byte*UCM*ByteForc3*Death_Geass*Stryk3r*WooT*Raise The Black*CTErr0r*
*Individual*mikejam*Flag Predator*klandes*_no_Skids*SQ.*CyberOWL*Ironhearts*Kizzle*gauti*
*San Antonio College Cyber Rangers*sam.ninja*Akerbeltz*cheeseroyale*Ephyra*sard city*OrderingChaos*Pickle_Ricks*
*Hex2Text*defiant*hefter*Flaggermeister*Oxford Brookes University*OD1E*noob_noob*Ferris Wheel*Ficus*ONO*jameless*
*Log1c_b0mb*dr4k0t4*0th3rs*dcua*cccchhhh6819*Manzara's Magpies*pwn4lyfe*Droogy*Shrubhound Gang*ssociety*HackJWU*
*asdfghjkl*n00bi3*i-cube warriors*WhateverThrone*Salvat0re*Chadsec*0x1337deadbeef*StarchThingIDK*Tieto_alaviiva_turva*
*InspiV*RPCA Cyber Club*kurage0verfl0w*lammm*pelicans_for_freedom*switchteam*tim*departedcomputerchairs*cool_runnings*
*chads*SecureShell*EetIetsHekken*CyberSquad*P&K*Trident*RedSeer*SOMA*EVM*BUckys_Angels*OrangeJuice*DemDirtyUserz*
*OpenToAll*Born2Hack*Bigglesworth*NIS*10Monkeys1Keyboard*TNGCrew*Cla55N0tF0und*exploits33kr*root_rulzz*InfosecIITG*
*superusers*H@rdT0R3m3b3r*operators*NULL*stuxCTF*mHackresciallo*Eclipse*Gingabeast*Hamad*Immortals*arasan*MouseTrap*
*damn_sadboi*tadaaa*null2root*HowestCSP*fezfezf*LordVader*Fl@g_Hunt3rs*bluenet*P@Ge2mE*



       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 21
RPORT => 21

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/ftp/anonymous (port 21) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/ftp/anonymous
               .;lxO0KXXXK0Oxl:.
           ,o0WMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMKd,
        'xNMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMWx,
      :KMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMK:
    .KMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMWNNNWMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMX,
   lWMMMMMMMMMMMXd:..     ..;dKMMMMMMMMMMMMo
  xMMMMMMMMMMWd.               .oNMMMMMMMMMMk
 oMMMMMMMMMMx.                    dMMMMMMMMMMx
.WMMMMMMMMM:                       :MMMMMMMMMM,
xMMMMMMMMMo                         lMMMMMMMMMO
NMMMMMMMMW                    ,cccccoMMMMMMMMMWlccccc;
MMMMMMMMMX                     ;KMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMX:
NMMMMMMMMW.                      ;KMMMMMMMMMMMMMMX:
xMMMMMMMMMd                        ,0MMMMMMMMMMK;
.WMMMMMMMMMc                         'OMMMMMM0,
 lMMMMMMMMMMk.                         .kMMO'
  dMMMMMMMMMMWd'                         ..
   cWMMMMMMMMMMMNxc'.                ##########
    .0MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMWc            #+#    #+#
      ;0MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMo.          +:+
        .dNMMMMMMMMMMMMo          +#++:++#+
           'oOWMMMMMMMMo                +:+
               .,cdkO0K;        :+:    :+:                                
                                :::::::+:
                      Metasploit

       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 21
RPORT => 21

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/ftp/ftp_login (port 21) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/ftp/ftp_login

  Metasploit Park, System Security Interface
  Version 4.0.5, Alpha E
  Ready...
  > access security
  access: PERMISSION DENIED.
  > access security grid
  access: PERMISSION DENIED.
  > access main security grid
  access: PERMISSION DENIED....and...
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 21
RPORT => 21

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run
[*] 107.180.250.162:21    - 107.180.250.162:21 - Starting FTP login sweep
[*] hypertrends.com:21    - Error: 107.180.250.162: Metasploit::Framework::LoginScanner::Invalid Cred details can't be blank, Cred details can't be blank (Metasploit::Framework::LoginScanner::FTP)
[*] hypertrends.com:21    - Scanned 1 of 1 hosts (100% complete)
[*] Auxiliary module execution completed


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/ssh/ssh_version (port 22) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/ssh/ssh_version
  +-------------------------------------------------------+
  |  METASPLOIT by Rapid7                                 |
  +---------------------------+---------------------------+
  |      __________________   |                           |
  |  ==c(______(o(______(_()  | |""""""""""""|======[***  |
  |             )=\           | |  EXPLOIT   \            |
  |            // \\          | |_____________\_______    |
  |           //   \\         | |==[msf >]============\   |
  |          //     \\        | |______________________\  |
  |         // RECON \\       | \(@)(@)(@)(@)(@)(@)(@)/   |
  |        //         \\      |  *********************    |
  +---------------------------+---------------------------+
  |      o O o                |        \'\/\/\/'/         |
  |              o O          |         )======(          |
  |                 o         |       .'  LOOT  '.        |
  | |^^^^^^^^^^^^^^|l___      |      /    _||__   \       |
  | |    PAYLOAD     |""\___, |     /    (_||_     \      |
  | |________________|__|)__| |    |     __||_)     |     |
  | |(@)(@)"""**|(@)(@)**|(@) |    "       ||       "     |
  |  = = = = = = = = = = = =  |     '--------------'      |
  +---------------------------+---------------------------+


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 22
RPORT => 22

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/ssh/ssh_login (port 22) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/ssh/ssh_login
  +-------------------------------------------------------+
  |  METASPLOIT by Rapid7                                 |
  +---------------------------+---------------------------+
  |      __________________   |                           |
  |  ==c(______(o(______(_()  | |""""""""""""|======[***  |
  |             )=\           | |  EXPLOIT   \            |
  |            // \\          | |_____________\_______    |
  |           //   \\         | |==[msf >]============\   |
  |          //     \\        | |______________________\  |
  |         // RECON \\       | \(@)(@)(@)(@)(@)(@)(@)/   |
  |        //         \\      |  *********************    |
  +---------------------------+---------------------------+
  |      o O o                |        \'\/\/\/'/         |
  |              o O          |         )======(          |
  |                 o         |       .'  LOOT  '.        |
  | |^^^^^^^^^^^^^^|l___      |      /    _||__   \       |
  | |    PAYLOAD     |""\___, |     /    (_||_     \      |
  | |________________|__|)__| |    |     __||_)     |     |
  | |(@)(@)"""**|(@)(@)**|(@) |    "       ||       "     |
  |  = = = = = = = = = = = =  |     '--------------'      |
  +---------------------------+---------------------------+


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 22
RPORT => 22

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run
[*] 107.180.250.162:22 - Starting bruteforce
[*] Error: 107.180.250.162: Metasploit::Framework::LoginScanner::Invalid Cred details can't be blank, Cred details can't be blank (Metasploit::Framework::LoginScanner::SSH)
[*] Scanned 1 of 1 hosts (100% complete)
[*] Auxiliary module execution completed


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/http/http_version (port 80) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/http/http_version

      .:okOOOkdc'           'cdkOOOko:.
    .xOOOOOOOOOOOOc       cOOOOOOOOOOOOx.
   :OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOk,   ,kOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO:
  'OOOOOOOOOkkkkOOOOO: :OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO'
  oOOOOOOOO.MMMM.oOOOOoOOOOl.MMMM,OOOOOOOOo
  dOOOOOOOO.MMMMMM.cOOOOOc.MMMMMM,OOOOOOOOx
  lOOOOOOOO.MMMMMMMMM;d;MMMMMMMMM,OOOOOOOOl
  .OOOOOOOO.MMM.;MMMMMMMMMMM;MMMM,OOOOOOOO.
   cOOOOOOO.MMM.OOc.MMMMM'oOO.MMM,OOOOOOOc
    oOOOOOO.MMM.OOOO.MMM:OOOO.MMM,OOOOOOo
     lOOOOO.MMM.OOOO.MMM:OOOO.MMM,OOOOOl
      ;OOOO'MMM.OOOO.MMM:OOOO.MMM;OOOO;
       .dOOo'WM.OOOOocccxOOOO.MX'xOOd.
         ,kOl'M.OOOOOOOOOOOOO.M'dOk,
           :kk;.OOOOOOOOOOOOO.;Ok:
             ;kOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOk:
               ,xOOOOOOOOOOOx,
                 .lOOOOOOOl.
                    ,dOd,
                      .

       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 80
RPORT => 80

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/http/http_version (port 443) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/http/http_version

                 _---------.
             .' #######   ;."
  .---,.    ;@             @@`;   .---,..
." @@@@@'.,'@@            @@@@@',.'@@@@ ".
'-.@@@@@@@@@@@@@          @@@@@@@@@@@@@ @;
   `.@@@@@@@@@@@@        @@@@@@@@@@@@@@ .'
     "--'.@@@  -.@        @ ,'-   .'--"
          ".@' ; @       @ `.  ;'
            |@@@@ @@@     @    .
             ' @@@ @@   @@    ,
              `.@@@@    @@   .
                ',@@     @   ;           _____________
                 (   3 C    )     /|___ / Metasploit! \
                 ;@'. __*__,."    \|--- \_____________/
                  '(.,...."/


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 443
RPORT => 443

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/http/options (port 80) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/http/options

 ______________________________________________________________________________
|                                                                              |
|                   METASPLOIT CYBER MISSILE COMMAND V5                        |
|______________________________________________________________________________|
      \                                  /                      /
       \     .                          /                      /            x
        \                              /                      /
         \                            /          +           /
          \            +             /                      /
           *                        /                      /
                                   /      .               /
    X                             /                      /            X
                                 /                     ###
                                /                     # % #
                               /                       ###
                      .       /
     .                       /      .            *           .
                            /
                           *
                  +                       *

                                       ^
####      __     __     __          #######         __     __     __        ####
####    /    \ /    \ /    \      ###########     /    \ /    \ /    \      ####
################################################################################
################################################################################
# WAVE 5 ######## SCORE 31337 ################################## HIGH FFFFFFFF #
################################################################################
                                                           https://metasploit.com


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 80
RPORT => 80

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/http/options (port 443) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/http/options
IIIIII    dTb.dTb        _.---._
  II     4'  v  'B   .'"".'/|\`.""'.
  II     6.     .P  :  .' / | \ `.  :
  II     'T;. .;P'  '.'  /  |  \  `.'
  II      'T; ;P'    `. /   |   \ .'
IIIIII     'YvP'       `-.__|__.-'

I love shells --egypt


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 443
RPORT => 443

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/http/robots_txt (port 80) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/http/robots_txt
               .;lxO0KXXXK0Oxl:.
           ,o0WMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMKd,
        'xNMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMWx,
      :KMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMK:
    .KMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMWNNNWMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMX,
   lWMMMMMMMMMMMXd:..     ..;dKMMMMMMMMMMMMo
  xMMMMMMMMMMWd.               .oNMMMMMMMMMMk
 oMMMMMMMMMMx.                    dMMMMMMMMMMx
.WMMMMMMMMM:                       :MMMMMMMMMM,
xMMMMMMMMMo                         lMMMMMMMMMO
NMMMMMMMMW                    ,cccccoMMMMMMMMMWlccccc;
MMMMMMMMMX                     ;KMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMX:
NMMMMMMMMW.                      ;KMMMMMMMMMMMMMMX:
xMMMMMMMMMd                        ,0MMMMMMMMMMK;
.WMMMMMMMMMc                         'OMMMMMM0,
 lMMMMMMMMMMk.                         .kMMO'
  dMMMMMMMMMMWd'                         ..
   cWMMMMMMMMMMMNxc'.                ##########
    .0MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMWc            #+#    #+#
      ;0MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMo.          +:+
        .dNMMMMMMMMMMMMo          +#++:++#+
           'oOWMMMMMMMMo                +:+
               .,cdkO0K;        :+:    :+:                                
                                :::::::+:
                      Metasploit

       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 80
RPORT => 80

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/http/robots_txt (port 443) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/http/robots_txt

  Metasploit Park, System Security Interface
  Version 4.0.5, Alpha E
  Ready...
  > access security
  access: PERMISSION DENIED.
  > access security grid
  access: PERMISSION DENIED.
  > access main security grid
  access: PERMISSION DENIED....and...
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 443
RPORT => 443

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/http/title (port 80) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/http/title

*Neutrino_Cannon*PrettyBeefy*PostalTime*binbash*deadastronauts*EvilBunnyWrote*L1T*Mail.ru*() { :;}; echo vulnerable*
*Team sorceror*ADACTF*BisonSquad*socialdistancing*LeukeTeamNaam*OWASP Moncton*Alegori*exit*Vampire Bunnies*APT593*
*QuePasaZombiesAndFriends*NetSecBG*coincoin*ShroomZ*Slow Coders*Scavenger Security*Bruh*NoTeamName*Terminal Cult*
*edspiner*BFG*MagentaHats*0x01DA*Kaczuszki*AlphaPwners*FILAHA*Raffaela*HackSurYvette*outout*HackSouth*Corax*yeeb0iz*
*SKUA*Cyber COBRA*flaghunters*0xCD*AI Generated*CSEC*p3nnm3d*IFS*CTF_Circle*InnotecLabs*baadf00d*BitSwitchers*0xnoobs*
*ItPwns - Intergalactic Team of PWNers*PCCsquared*fr334aks*runCMD*0x194*Kapital Krakens*ReadyPlayer1337*Team 443*
*H4CKSN0W*InfOUsec*CTF Community*DCZia*NiceWay*0xBlueSky*ME3*Tipi'Hack*Porg Pwn Platoon*Hackerty*hackstreetboys*
*ideaengine007*eggcellent*H4x*cw167*localhorst*Original Cyan Lonkero*Sad_Pandas*FalseFlag*OurHeartBleedsOrange*SBWASP*
*Cult of the Dead Turkey*doesthismatter*crayontheft*Cyber Mausoleum*scripterz*VetSec*norbot*Delta Squad Zero*Mukesh*
*x00-x00*BlackCat*ARESx*cxp*vaporsec*purplehax*RedTeam@MTU*UsalamaTeam*vitamink*RISC*forkbomb444*hownowbrowncow*
*etherknot*cheesebaguette*downgrade*FR!3ND5*badfirmware*Cut3Dr4g0n*dc615*nora*Polaris One*team*hail hydra*Takoyaki*
*Sudo Society*incognito-flash*TheScientists*Tea Party*Reapers of Pwnage*OldBoys*M0ul3Fr1t1B13r3*bearswithsaws*DC540*
*iMosuke*Infosec_zitro*CrackTheFlag*TheConquerors*Asur*4fun*Rogue-CTF*Cyber*TMHC*The_Pirhacks*btwIuseArch*MadDawgs*
*HInc*The Pighty Mangolins*CCSF_RamSec*x4n0n*x0rc3r3rs*emehacr*Ph4n70m_R34p3r*humziq*Preeminence*UMGC*ByteBrigade*
*TeamFastMark*Towson-Cyberkatz*meow*xrzhev*PA Hackers*Kuolema*Nakateam*L0g!c B0mb*NOVA-InfoSec*teamstyle*Panic*
*B0NG0R3*                                                                                    *Les Cadets Rouges*buf*
*Les Tontons Fl4gueurs*                                                                      *404 : Flag Not Found*
*' UNION SELECT 'password*      _________                __                                  *OCD247*Sparkle Pony* 
*burner_herz0g*                 \_   ___ \_____  _______/  |_ __ _________   ____            *Kill$hot*ConEmu*
*here_there_be_trolls*          /    \  \/\__  \ \____ \   __\  |  \_  __ \_/ __ \           *;echo"hacked"*
*r4t5_*6rung4nd4*NYUSEC*        \     \____/ __ \|  |_> >  | |  |  /|  | \/\  ___/           *karamel4e*
*IkastenIO*TWC*balkansec*        \______  (____  /   __/|__| |____/ |__|    \___  >          *cybersecurity.li*
*TofuEelRoll*Trash Pandas*              \/     \/|__|                           \/           *OneManArmy*cyb3r_w1z4rd5*
*Astra*Got Schwartz?*tmux*                  ___________.__                                   *AreYouStuck*Mr.Robot.0*
*\nls*Juicy white peach*                    \__    ___/|  |__   ____                         *EPITA Rennes*
*HackerKnights*                               |    |   |  |  \_/ __ \                        *guildOfGengar*Titans*
*Pentest Rangers*                             |    |   |   Y  \  ___/                        *The Libbyrators*
*placeholder name*bitup*                      |____|   |___|  /\___  >                       *JeffTadashi*Mikeal*
*UCASers*onotch*                                            \/     \/                        *ky_dong_day_song*
*NeNiNuMmOk*                              ___________.__                                     *JustForFun!*
*Maux de tête*LalaNG*                     \_   _____/|  | _____     ____                     *g3tsh3Lls0on*
*crr0tz*z3r0p0rn*clueless*                 |    __)  |  | \__  \   / ___\                    *Phở Đặc Biệt*Paradox*
*HackWara*                                 |     \   |  |__/ __ \_/ /_/  >                   *KaRIPux*inf0sec*
*Kugelschreibertester*                     \___  /   |____(____  /\___  /                    *bluehens*Antoine77*
*icemasters*                                   \/              \//_____/                     *genxy*TRADE_NAMES*
*Spartan's Ravens*                       _______________   _______________                   *BadByte*fontwang_tw*
*g0ldd1gg3rs*pappo*                     \_____  \   _  \  \_____  \   _  \                   *ghoti*
*Les CRACKS*c0dingRabbits*               /  ____/  /_\  \  /  ____/  /_\  \                  *LinuxRiders*   
*2Cr4Sh*RecycleBin*                     /       \  \_/   \/       \  \_/   \                 *Jalan Durian*
*ExploitStudio*                         \_______ \_____  /\_______ \_____  /                 *WPICSC*logaritm*
*Car RamRod*0x41414141*                         \/     \/         \/     \/                  *Orv1ll3*team-fm4dd*
*Björkson*FlyingCircus*                                                                      *PwnHub*H4X0R*Yanee*
*Securifera*hot cocoa*                                                                       *Et3rnal*PelarianCP*
*n00bytes*DNC&G*guildzero*dorko*tv*42*{EHF}*CarpeDien*Flamin-Go*BarryWhite*XUcyber*FernetInjection*DCcurity*
*Mars Explorer*ozen_cfw*Fat Boys*Simpatico*nzdjb*Isec-U.O*The Pomorians*T35H*H@wk33*JetJ*OrangeStar*Team Corgi*
*D0g3*0itch*OffRes*LegionOfRinf*UniWA*wgucoo*Pr0ph3t*L0ner*_n00bz*OSINT Punchers*Tinfoil Hats*Hava*Team Neu*
*Cyb3rDoctor*Techlock Inc*kinakomochi*DubbelDopper*bubbasnmp*w*Gh0st$*tyl3rsec*LUCKY_CLOVERS*ev4d3rx10-team*ir4n6*
*PEQUI_ctf*HKLBGD*L3o*5 bits short of a byte*UCM*ByteForc3*Death_Geass*Stryk3r*WooT*Raise The Black*CTErr0r*
*Individual*mikejam*Flag Predator*klandes*_no_Skids*SQ.*CyberOWL*Ironhearts*Kizzle*gauti*
*San Antonio College Cyber Rangers*sam.ninja*Akerbeltz*cheeseroyale*Ephyra*sard city*OrderingChaos*Pickle_Ricks*
*Hex2Text*defiant*hefter*Flaggermeister*Oxford Brookes University*OD1E*noob_noob*Ferris Wheel*Ficus*ONO*jameless*
*Log1c_b0mb*dr4k0t4*0th3rs*dcua*cccchhhh6819*Manzara's Magpies*pwn4lyfe*Droogy*Shrubhound Gang*ssociety*HackJWU*
*asdfghjkl*n00bi3*i-cube warriors*WhateverThrone*Salvat0re*Chadsec*0x1337deadbeef*StarchThingIDK*Tieto_alaviiva_turva*
*InspiV*RPCA Cyber Club*kurage0verfl0w*lammm*pelicans_for_freedom*switchteam*tim*departedcomputerchairs*cool_runnings*
*chads*SecureShell*EetIetsHekken*CyberSquad*P&K*Trident*RedSeer*SOMA*EVM*BUckys_Angels*OrangeJuice*DemDirtyUserz*
*OpenToAll*Born2Hack*Bigglesworth*NIS*10Monkeys1Keyboard*TNGCrew*Cla55N0tF0und*exploits33kr*root_rulzz*InfosecIITG*
*superusers*H@rdT0R3m3b3r*operators*NULL*stuxCTF*mHackresciallo*Eclipse*Gingabeast*Hamad*Immortals*arasan*MouseTrap*
*damn_sadboi*tadaaa*null2root*HowestCSP*fezfezf*LordVader*Fl@g_Hunt3rs*bluenet*P@Ge2mE*



       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 80
RPORT => 80

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run
[+] [107.180.250.162:80] [C:301] [R:https://hypertrends.com/] [S:nginx] 301 Moved Permanently
[*] Scanned 1 of 1 hosts (100% complete)
[*] Auxiliary module execution completed


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/http/title (port 443) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/http/title
IIIIII    dTb.dTb        _.---._
  II     4'  v  'B   .'"".'/|\`.""'.
  II     6.     .P  :  .' / | \ `.  :
  II     'T;. .;P'  '.'  /  |  \  `.'
  II      'T; ;P'    `. /   |   \ .'
IIIIII     'YvP'       `-.__|__.-'

I love shells --egypt


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 443
RPORT => 443

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run
[+] [107.180.250.162:443] [C:400] [R:] [S:nginx] 400 The plain HTTP request was sent to HTTPS port
[*] Scanned 1 of 1 hosts (100% complete)
[*] Auxiliary module execution completed


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/http/apache_options (port 80) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/http/apache_options

Unable to handle kernel NULL pointer dereference at virtual address 0xd34db33f
EFLAGS: 00010046
eax: 00000001 ebx: f77c8c00 ecx: 00000000 edx: f77f0001
esi: 803bf014 edi: 8023c755 ebp: 80237f84 esp: 80237f60
ds: 0018   es: 0018  ss: 0018
Process Swapper (Pid: 0, process nr: 0, stackpage=80377000)


Stack: 90909090990909090990909090
       90909090990909090990909090
       90909090.90909090.90909090
       90909090.90909090.90909090
       90909090.90909090.09090900
       90909090.90909090.09090900
       ..........................
       cccccccccccccccccccccccccc
       cccccccccccccccccccccccccc
       ccccccccc.................
       cccccccccccccccccccccccccc
       cccccccccccccccccccccccccc
       .................ccccccccc
       cccccccccccccccccccccccccc
       cccccccccccccccccccccccccc
       ..........................
       ffffffffffffffffffffffffff
       ffffffff..................
       ffffffffffffffffffffffffff
       ffffffff..................
       ffffffff..................
       ffffffff..................


Code: 00 00 00 00 M3 T4 SP L0 1T FR 4M 3W OR K! V3 R5 I0 N5 00 00 00 00
Aiee, Killing Interrupt handler
Kernel panic: Attempted to kill the idle task!
In swapper task - not syncing


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


Matching Modules
================

   #  Name                                        Disclosure Date  Rank    Check  Description
   -  ----                                        ---------------  ----    -----  -----------
   0  auxiliary/scanner/http/apache_optionsbleed  2017-09-18       normal  No     Apache Optionsbleed Scanner


Interact with a module by name or index. For example info 0, use 0 or use auxiliary/scanner/http/apache_optionsbleed

[*] Using auxiliary/scanner/http/apache_optionsbleed

> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 80
RPORT => 80

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run
[*] Scanned 1 of 1 hosts (100% complete)
[*] Auxiliary module execution completed


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/http/apache_options (port 443) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/http/apache_options

                 _---------.
             .' #######   ;."
  .---,.    ;@             @@`;   .---,..
." @@@@@'.,'@@            @@@@@',.'@@@@ ".
'-.@@@@@@@@@@@@@          @@@@@@@@@@@@@ @;
   `.@@@@@@@@@@@@        @@@@@@@@@@@@@@ .'
     "--'.@@@  -.@        @ ,'-   .'--"
          ".@' ; @       @ `.  ;'
            |@@@@ @@@     @    .
             ' @@@ @@   @@    ,
              `.@@@@    @@   .
                ',@@     @   ;           _____________
                 (   3 C    )     /|___ / Metasploit! \
                 ;@'. __*__,."    \|--- \_____________/
                  '(.,...."/


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


Matching Modules
================

   #  Name                                        Disclosure Date  Rank    Check  Description
   -  ----                                        ---------------  ----    -----  -----------
   0  auxiliary/scanner/http/apache_optionsbleed  2017-09-18       normal  No     Apache Optionsbleed Scanner


Interact with a module by name or index. For example info 0, use 0 or use auxiliary/scanner/http/apache_optionsbleed

[*] Using auxiliary/scanner/http/apache_optionsbleed

> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 443
RPORT => 443

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/http/dir_listing (port 80) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/http/dir_listing

  Metasploit Park, System Security Interface
  Version 4.0.5, Alpha E
  Ready...
  > access security
  access: PERMISSION DENIED.
  > access security grid
  access: PERMISSION DENIED.
  > access main security grid
  access: PERMISSION DENIED....and...
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!
  YOU DIDN'T SAY THE MAGIC WORD!


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 80
RPORT => 80

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/http/dir_listing (port 443) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/http/dir_listing

MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM
MMMMMMMMMMM                MMMMMMMMMM
MMMN$                           vMMMM
MMMNl  MMMMM             MMMMM  JMMMM
MMMNl  MMMMMMMN       NMMMMMMM  JMMMM
MMMNl  MMMMMMMMMNmmmNMMMMMMMMM  JMMMM
MMMNI  MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM  jMMMM
MMMNI  MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM  jMMMM
MMMNI  MMMMM   MMMMMMM   MMMMM  jMMMM
MMMNI  MMMMM   MMMMMMM   MMMMM  jMMMM
MMMNI  MMMNM   MMMMMMM   MMMMM  jMMMM
MMMNI  WMMMM   MMMMMMM   MMMM#  JMMMM
MMMMR  ?MMNM             MMMMM .dMMMM
MMMMNm `?MMM             MMMM` dMMMMM
MMMMMMN  ?MM             MM?  NMMMMMN
MMMMMMMMNe                 JMMMMMNMMM
MMMMMMMMMMNm,            eMMMMMNMMNMM
MMMMNNMNMMMMMNx        MMMMMMNMMNMMNM
MMMMMMMMNMMNMMMMm+..+MMNMMNMNMMNMMNMM
        https://metasploit.com


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 443
RPORT => 443

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/http/drupal_views_user_enum (port 80) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/http/drupal_views_user_enum
 ______________________________________
/ it looks like you're trying to run a \
\ module                               /
 --------------------------------------
 \
  \
     __
    /  \
    |  |
    @  @
    |  |
    || |/
    || ||
    |\_/|
    \___/


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 80
RPORT => 80

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/http/drupal_views_user_enum (port 443) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/http/drupal_views_user_enum
 _                                                    _
/ \    /\         __                         _   __  /_/ __
| |\  / | _____   \ \           ___   _____ | | /  \ _   \ \
| | \/| | | ___\ |- -|   /\    / __\ | -__/ | || | || | |- -|
|_|   | | | _|__  | |_  / -\ __\ \   | |    | | \__/| |  | |_
      |/  |____/  \___\/ /\ \\___/   \/     \__|    |_\  \___\


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 443
RPORT => 443

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/http/wordpress_login_enum (port 80) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/http/wordpress_login_enum
                                   ___          ____
                               ,-""   `.      < HONK >
                             ,'  _   e )`-._ /  ----
                            /  ,' `-._<.===-'
                           /  /
                          /  ;
              _          /   ;
 (`._    _.-"" ""--..__,'    |
 <_  `-""                     \
  <`-                          :
   (__   <__.                  ;
     `-.   '-.__.      _.'    /
        \      `-.__,-'    _,'
         `._    ,    /__,-'
            ""._\__,'< <____
                 | |  `----.`.
                 | |        \ `.
                 ; |___      \-``
                 \   --<
                  `.`.<
                    `-'



       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 80
RPORT => 80

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/http/wordpress_login_enum (port 443) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/http/wordpress_login_enum
  +-------------------------------------------------------+
  |  METASPLOIT by Rapid7                                 |
  +---------------------------+---------------------------+
  |      __________________   |                           |
  |  ==c(______(o(______(_()  | |""""""""""""|======[***  |
  |             )=\           | |  EXPLOIT   \            |
  |            // \\          | |_____________\_______    |
  |           //   \\         | |==[msf >]============\   |
  |          //     \\        | |______________________\  |
  |         // RECON \\       | \(@)(@)(@)(@)(@)(@)(@)/   |
  |        //         \\      |  *********************    |
  +---------------------------+---------------------------+
  |      o O o                |        \'\/\/\/'/         |
  |              o O          |         )======(          |
  |                 o         |       .'  LOOT  '.        |
  | |^^^^^^^^^^^^^^|l___      |      /    _||__   \       |
  | |    PAYLOAD     |""\___, |     /    (_||_     \      |
  | |________________|__|)__| |    |     __||_)     |     |
  | |(@)(@)"""**|(@)(@)**|(@) |    "       ||       "     |
  |  = = = = = = = = = = = =  |     '--------------'      |
  +---------------------------+---------------------------+


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project


> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 443
RPORT => 443

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/http/wordpress_user_enum (port 80) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/http/wordpress_user_enum
 ______________________________________
/ it looks like you're trying to run a \
\ module                               /
 --------------------------------------
 \
  \
     __
    /  \
    |  |
    @  @
    |  |
    || |/
    || ||
    |\_/|
    \___/


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project

[-] No results from search
[-] Failed to load module: auxiliary/scanner/http/wordpress_user_enum

> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 80
RPORT => 80

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run
[-] Unknown command: run. Run the help command for more details.


===== MODULE: auxiliary/scanner/http/wordpress_user_enum (port 443) =====

> use auxiliary/scanner/http/wordpress_user_enum

                 _---------.
             .' #######   ;."
  .---,.    ;@             @@`;   .---,..
." @@@@@'.,'@@            @@@@@',.'@@@@ ".
'-.@@@@@@@@@@@@@          @@@@@@@@@@@@@ @;
   `.@@@@@@@@@@@@        @@@@@@@@@@@@@@ .'
     "--'.@@@  -.@        @ ,'-   .'--"
          ".@' ; @       @ `.  ;'
            |@@@@ @@@     @    .
             ' @@@ @@   @@    ,
              `.@@@@    @@   .
                ',@@     @   ;           _____________
                 (   3 C    )     /|___ / Metasploit! \
                 ;@'. __*__,."    \|--- \_____________/
                  '(.,...."/


       =[ metasploit v6.4.80-dev-b8dad8d85ff3c643c9706089c626db761de38212]
+ -- --=[ 2,544 exploits - 1,309 auxiliary - 1,674 payloads     ]
+ -- --=[ 431 post - 49 encoders - 13 nops - 9 evasion          ]

Metasploit Documentation: https://docs.metasploit.com/
The Metasploit Framework is a Rapid7 Open Source Project

[-] No results from search
[-] Failed to load module: auxiliary/scanner/http/wordpress_user_enum

> set RHOSTS hypertrends.com
RHOSTS => hypertrends.com

> set RPORT 443
RPORT => 443

> unsetg Proxies
Unsetting Proxies...

> run
[-] Unknown command: run. Run the help command for more details.


----- STDERR -----


            ├───nikto
			123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000:===== Nikto Metadata =====
Tool      : nikto
Target    : hypertrends.com
Status    : PARTIAL_SUCCESS
Command   : nikto -Tuning bde -timeout 120 -evasion 1 -nointeractive -ask no -Pause 2 -host hypertrends.com
Timestamp : 2025-09-01T10:20:56.322339+00:00
==========================

----- STDOUT -----
-***** Pausing 2 second(s) per request
- Nikto v2.5.0
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
+ Target IP:          107.180.250.162
+ Target Hostname:    hypertrends.com
+ Target Port:        80
+ Using Encoding:     Random URI encoding (non-UTF8)
+ Start Time:         2025-09-01 15:42:46 (GMT5.5)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
+ Server: nginx
+ /: The anti-clickjacking X-Frame-Options header is not present. See: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/X-Frame-Options
+ /: The X-Content-Type-Options header is not set. This could allow the user agent to render the content of the site in a different fashion to the MIME type. See: https://www.netsparker.com/web-vulnerability-scanner/vulnerabilities/missing-content-type-header/
+ No CGI Directories found (use '-C all' to force check all possible dirs)
+ Scan terminated: 8 error(s) and 2 item(s) reported on remote host
+ End Time:           2025-09-01 15:50:56 (GMT5.5) (490 seconds)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
+ 1 host(s) tested

----- STDERR -----
+ ERROR: Error limit (20) reached for host, giving up. Last error: 


            └───nmap
			123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000:===== Nmap Metadata =====
Tool      : nmap
Target    : hypertrends.com
Status    : SUCCESS
Command   : nmap --script=vuln hypertrends.com
Timestamp : 2025-09-01T07:55:02.295249+00:00
==========================

----- STDOUT -----
Starting Nmap 7.97 ( https://nmap.org ) at 2025-09-01 12:55 +0530
Nmap scan report for hypertrends.com (107.180.250.162)
Host is up (0.26s latency).
rDNS record for 107.180.250.162: dp-66d1e22ba7.dreamhostps.com
Not shown: 994 filtered tcp ports (no-response)
PORT      STATE  SERVICE
22/tcp    open   ssh
80/tcp    open   http
|_http-dombased-xss: Couldn't find any DOM based XSS.
|_http-csrf: Couldn't find any CSRF vulnerabilities.
|_http-stored-xss: Couldn't find any stored XSS vulnerabilities.
81/tcp    closed hosts2-ns
443/tcp   open   https
| http-wordpress-users: 
| Username found: amarwadi
| Username found: artoon
| Username found: adityaht
| Username found: kaushalht
| Username found: abhishek-mishra
| Username found: ayushiht
|_Search stopped at ID #25. Increase the upper limit if necessary with 'http-wordpress-users.limit'
| http-enum: 
|   /wp-login.php: Possible admin folder
|   /wp-json: Possible admin folder
|   /readme.html: Wordpress version: 2 
|   /wp-includes/images/rss.png: Wordpress version 2.2 found.
|   /wp-includes/js/jquery/suggest.js: Wordpress version 2.5 found.
|   /wp-includes/images/blank.gif: Wordpress version 2.6 found.
|   /wp-includes/js/comment-reply.js: Wordpress version 2.7 found.
|   /wp-login.php: Wordpress login page.
|   /wp-admin/upgrade.php: Wordpress login page.
|_  /readme.html: Interesting, a readme.
|_http-csrf: Couldn't find any CSRF vulnerabilities.
|_http-dombased-xss: Couldn't find any DOM based XSS.
|_http-stored-xss: Couldn't find any stored XSS vulnerabilities.
60020/tcp closed unknown
60443/tcp closed unknown

Nmap done: 1 IP address (1 host up) scanned in 1748.25 seconds

----- STDERR -----

      |______ nuclei
			123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000.646BcdAd:===== Nuclei Metadata =====
Tool      : nuclei
Target    : hypertrends.com
Status    : SUCCESS
Command   : nuclei -tags wordpress -j -rl 30 -silent -u hypertrends.com
Start Time: 2025-09-09T10:20:35.730358+00:00
End Time  : 2025-09-09T10:23:09.110735+00:00
Duration in seconds : 153.380377s
==========================

----- STDOUT -----
{"template":"http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/advanced-custom-fields.yaml","template-url":"https://cloud.projectdiscovery.io/public/wordpress-advanced-custom-fields","template-id":"wordpress-advanced-custom-fields","template-path":"/Users/ayushi/nuclei-templates/http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/advanced-custom-fields.yaml","info":{"name":"Advanced Custom Fields (ACF®) Detection","author":["ricardomaia"],"tags":["tech","wordpress","wp-plugin","top-100","top-200"],"reference":["https://wordpress.org/plugins/advanced-custom-fields/"],"severity":"info","metadata":{"plugin_namespace":"advanced-custom-fields","wpscan":"https://wpscan.com/plugin/advanced-custom-fields"}},"extractor-name":"detected_version","type":"http","host":"hypertrends.com","port":"443","scheme":"https","url":"https://hypertrends.com","matched-at":"https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/advanced-custom-fields/readme.txt","extracted-results":["6.5.0"],"request":"GET /wp-content/plugins/advanced-custom-fields/readme.txt HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: hypertrends.com\r\nUser-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Fedora; Linux x86_64; rv:126.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/126.0\r\nAccept: */*\r\nAccept-Language: en\r\nAccept-Encoding: gzip\r\n\r\n","response":"HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r\nConnection: close\r\nTransfer-Encoding: chunked\r\nContent-Security-Policy: default-src * 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval' data: blob:;\r\nContent-Type: text/plain\r\nDate: Tue, 09 Sep 2025 10:21:29 GMT\r\nEtag: W/\"689d9324-8609\"\r\nLast-Modified: Thu, 14 Aug 2025 07:41:24 GMT\r\nReferrer-Policy: no-referrer-when-downgrade\r\nServer: nginx\r\nStrict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000;\r\nVary: Accept-Encoding\r\nX-Content-Type-Options: nosniff\r\nX-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN\r\nX-Rocket-Nginx-Serving-Static: MISS\r\nX-Xss-Protection: 1; mode=block\r\n\r\n=== Advanced Custom Fields (ACF®) ===\nContributors: deliciousbrains, wpengine, elliotcondon, mattshaw, lgladdy, antpb, johnstonphilip, dalewilliams, polevaultweb\nTags: acf, fields, custom fields, meta, repeater\nRequires at least: 6.0\nTested up to: 6.8.2\nRequires PHP: 7.4\nStable tag: 6.5.0\nLicense: GPLv2 or later\nLicense URI: https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html\n\nACF helps customize WordPress with powerful, professional and intuitive fields. Proudly powering over 2 million sites, WordPress developers love ACF.\n\n== Description ==\n\nAdvanced Custom Fields (ACF®) turns WordPress sites into a fully-fledged content management system by giving you all the tools to do more with your data.\n\nUse the ACF plugin to take full control of your WordPress edit screens, custom field data, and more.\n\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9C6_roqghZQ\u0026rel=0\n\n**Add fields on demand.**\nThe ACF field builder allows you to quickly and easily add fields to WP edit screens with only the click of a few buttons! Whether it's something simple like adding an “author” field to a book review post, or something more complex like the structured data needs of an ecommerce site or marketplace, ACF makes adding fields to your content model easy.\n\n**Add them anywhere.**\nFields can be added all over WordPress including posts, pages, users, taxonomy terms, media, comments and even custom options pages! It couldn't be simpler to bring structure to the WordPress content creation experience.\n\n**Show them everywhere.**\nLoad and display your custom field values in any theme template file with our hassle-free, developer friendly functions! Whether you need to display a single value or generate content based on a more complex query, the out-of-the-box functions of ACF make templating a dream for developers of all levels of experience.\n\n**Any Content, Fast.**\nTurning WordPress into a true content management system is not just about custom fields. Creating new custom post types and taxonomies is an essential part of building custom WordPress sites. Registering post types and taxonomies is now possible right in the ACF UI, speeding up the content modeling workflow without the need to touch code or use another plugin.\n\n**Simply beautiful and intentionally accessible.**\nFor content creators and those tasked with data entry, the field user experience is as intuitive as they could desire while fitting neatly into the native WordPress experience. Accessibility standards are regularly reviewed and applied, ensuring ACF is able to empower as close to anyone as possible.\n\n**Documentation and developer guides.**\nOver 10 plus years of vibrant community contribution alongside an ongoing commitment to clear documentation means that you'll be able to find the guidance you need to build what you want.\n\n= Features =\n* Simple \u0026 Intuitive\n* Powerful Functions\n* Over 30 Field Types\n* Extensive Documentation\n* Millions of Users\n\n= Links =\n* [Website](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/?utm_source=wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=free%20plugin%20listing\u0026utm_campaign=ACF%20Website)\n* [Documentation](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/resources/?utm_source=wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=free%20plugin%20listing\u0026utm_campaign=ACF%20Website)\n* [Support](https://support.advancedcustomfields.com)\n* [ACF PRO](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/pro/?utm_source=wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=free%20plugin%20listing\u0026utm_campaign=ACF%20Pro%20Upgrade)\n\n= PRO =\nThe Advanced Custom Fields plugin is also available in a professional version which includes more fields, more functionality, and more flexibility. The ACF PRO plugin features:\n\n* The [Repeater Field](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/resources/repeater/?utm_source=wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=free%20plugin%20listing\u0026utm_campaign=ACF%20Pro%20Upgrade) allows you to create a set of sub fields which can be repeated again, and again, and again.\n* [ACF Blocks](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/resources/blocks/?utm_source=wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=free%20plugin%20listing\u0026utm_campaign=ACF%20Pro%20Upgrade), a powerful PHP-based framework for developing custom block types for the WordPress Block Editor (aka Gutenberg).\n* Define, create, and manage content with the [Flexible Content Field](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/resources/flexible-content/?utm_source=wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=free%20plugin%20listing\u0026utm_campaign=ACF%20Pro%20Upgrade), which provides for multiple layout and sub field options.\n* Use the [Options Page](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/resources/options-page/?utm_source=wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=free%20plugin%20listing\u0026utm_campaign=ACF%20Pro%20Upgrade) feature to add custom admin pages to edit ACF fields.\n* Build fully customisable image galleries with the [Gallery Field](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/resources/gallery/?utm_source=wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=free%20plugin%20listing\u0026utm_campaign=ACF%20Pro%20Upgrade).\n* Unlock a more efficient workflow for managing field settings by reusing existing fields and field groups on demand with the [Clone Field](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/resources/clone/?utm_source=wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=free%20plugin%20listing\u0026utm_campaign=ACF%20Pro%20Upgrade).\n\n[Upgrade to ACF PRO](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/pro/?utm_source=wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=free%20plugin%20listing\u0026utm_campaign=ACF%20Pro%20Upgrade)\n\n== Installation ==\n\nFrom your WordPress dashboard\n\n1. **Visit** Plugins \u003e Add New\n2. **Search** for \"Advanced Custom Fields\" or “ACF”\n3. **Install and Activate** Advanced Custom Fields from your Plugins page\n4. **Click** on the new menu item \"ACF\" and create your first custom field group, or register a custom post type or taxonomy.\n5. **Read** the documentation to [get started](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/resources/getting-started-with-acf/?utm_source=wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=free%20plugin%20listing\u0026utm_campaign=ACF%20Website)\n\n\n== Frequently Asked Questions ==\n\n= What kind of support do you provide? =\n\n**Support Forums.** Our ACF Community Forums provide a great resource for searching and finding previously answered and asked support questions. You may create a new thread on these forums, however, it is not guaranteed that you will receive an answer from our support team. This is more of an area for ACF developers to talk to one another, post ideas, plugins and provide basic help. [View the Support Forum](https://support.advancedcustomfields.com/)\n\n\n== Screenshots ==\n\n1. Simple \u0026 Intuitive\n\n2. Made for Developers\n\n3. All About Fields\n\n4. Registering Custom Post Types\n\n5. Registering Taxonomies\n\n\n== Changelog ==\n\n= 6.5.0 =\n*Release Date 11th August 2025*\n\n* New - Flexible Content layouts can now be renamed in the post editor, giving content editors better clarity when managing layouts\n* New - Flexible Content layouts can now be disabled, preventing them from rendering on the frontend without needing to delete their data\n* New - Flexible Content layouts can now be collapsed and expanded in bulk for faster content editing\n* New - Editing a Flexible Content layout now highlights the layout being edited, making it easier to identify\n* New - The Date and Date Time Picker fields can now be configured to default to the current date\n* Fix - Custom Icon Picker tabs now work correctly when used inside an ACF Block\n* Fix - Duplicating a Field Group no longer causes a fatal error when using Russian translations\n* Fix - ACF classes no longer use dynamic class properties, improving compatibility with PHP 8.2+\n* Fix - ACF PRO no longer shows an update available immediately after updating to the latest version\n* Fix - Field group metabox collapse and expand buttons are no longer misaligned in the post editor\n* Fix - The ACF Site Health section no longer causes a PHP warning when field group location rules are incomplete\n* Security - HTML is now escaped from field validation errors and tooltips\n\n= 6.4.3 =\n*Release Date 22nd July 2025*\n\n* Security - Unsafe HTML in field group labels is now correctly escaped for conditionally loaded field groups, resolving a JS execution vulnerability in the classic editor\n* Security - HTML is now escaped from field group labels when output in the ACF admin\n* Security - Bidirectional and Conditional Logic Select2 elements no longer render HTML in field labels or post titles\n* Security - The `acf.escHtml` function now uses the third party DOMPurify library to ensure all unsafe HTML is removed. A new `esc_html_dompurify_config` JS filter can be used to modify the default behaviour\n* Security - Post titles are now correctly escaped whenever they are output by ACF code. Thanks to Shogo Kumamaru of LAC Co., Ltd. for the responsible disclosure\n* Security - An admin notice is now displayed when version 3 of the Select2 library is used, as it has now been deprecated in favor of version 4\n\n= 6.4.2 =\n*Release Date 20th May 2025*\n\n* New - In ACF PRO, fields can now be added to WooCommerce Subscriptions when using HPOS\n* Security - Changing a field type no longer enables the \"Allow Access to Value in Editor UI\" setting\n* Fix - Paginated Repeater fields no longer save duplicate values when saving to a WooCommerce Order with HPOS disabled\n* Fix - Blocks registered via acf_register_block_type() with a `parent` value of `null` no longer fail to register\n\n= 6.4.1 =\n*Release Date 8th May 2025*\n\n* New - Select fields can now be configured to allow creating new options when editing the field's value (requires the \"Stylized UI\" and \"Multiple\" field settings to be enabled)\n* Enhancement - The \"Escaped HTML\" warning notice [introduced in ACF 6.2.5](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-2-5-security-release/) is now disabled by default\n* Enhancement - The Icon Picker field now supports supplying an array of icons to a custom tab via a new `acf/fields/icon_picker/{tab_name}/icons` filter\n* Fix - ACF Blocks are now forced into preview mode when editing a synced pattern\n* Fix - The free ACF plugin once again works with the Classic Widgets plugin and the legacy ACF Options Page addon\n* Fix - ACF no longer causes an infinite loop in bbPress when editing replies\n\n= 6.4.0.1 =\n*Release Date 8th April 2025*\n\n* Fix - Calling `acf_get_reference()` with an invalid field name no longer causes a fatal error\n\n= 6.4.0 =\n*Release Date 7th April 2025*\n\n* New - In ACF PRO, fields can now be added to WooCommerce orders when using HPOS\n* Enhancement - ACF now uses Composer to autoload some classes\n* Fix - Repeater pagination now works when the Repeater is inside a Group field\n* Fix - Various translations are no longer called before the WordPress `init` action hook\n* Security - Link field no longer has a minor local XSS vulnerability\n* i18n - Various British English translation strings no longer have a quoting issue breaking links\n* i18n - Added Dutch (formal) translations (props @toineenzo)\n\n= 6.3.12 =\n*Release Date 21st January 2025*\n\n* Enhancement - Error messages that occur when field validation fails due an insufficient security nonce now have additional context\n* Fix - Duplicated ACF blocks no longer lose their field values after the initial save when block preloading is enabled\n* Fix - ACF Blocks containing complex field types now behave correctly when React StrictMode is enabled\n\n= 6.3.11 =\n*Release Date 12th November 2024*\n\n* Enhancement - Field Group keys are now copyable on click\n* Fix - Repeater tables with fields hidden by conditional logic now render correctly\n* Fix - ACF Blocks now behave correctly in React StrictMode\n* Fix - Edit mode is no longer available to ACF Blocks with an WordPress Block API version of 3 as field editing is not supported in the iframe\n\n= 6.3.10.2 =\n*Release Date 29th October 2024*\n*Free Only Release*\n\n* Fix - ACF Free no longer causes a fatal error when any unsupported legacy ACF addons are active\n\n= 6.3.10.1 =\n*Release Date 29th October 2024*\n*Free Only Release*\n\n* Fix - ACF Free no longer causes a fatal error when WPML is active\n\n= 6.3.10 =\n*Release Date 29th October 2024*\n\n* Security - Setting a metabox callback for custom post types and taxonomies now requires being an admin, or super admin for multisite installs\n* Security - Field specific ACF nonces are now prefixed, resolving an issue where third party nonces could be treated as valid for AJAX calls\n* Enhancement - A new “Close and Add Field” option is now available when editing a field group, inserting a new field inline after the field being edited\n* Enhancement - ACF and ACF PRO now share the same plugin updater for improved reliability and performance\n* Fix - Exporting post types and taxonomies containing metabox callbacks now correctly exports the user defined callback\n\n= 6.3.9 =\n*Release Date 15th October 2024*\n\n* Security - Editing an ACF Field in the Field Group editor can no longer execute a stored XSS vulnerability. Thanks to Duc Luong Tran (janlele91) from Viettel Cyber Security for the responsible disclosure\n* Security - Post Type and Taxonomy metabox callbacks no longer have access to any superglobal values, hardening the original fix from 6.3.8 further\n* Fix - ACF fields now correctly validate when used in the block editor and attached to the sidebar\n\n= 6.3.8 =\n*Release Date 7th October 2024*\n\n* Security - ACF defined Post Type and Taxonomy metabox callbacks no longer have access to $_POST data. (Thanks to the Automattic Security Team for the disclosure)\n\n= 6.3.7 =\n*Release Date 2nd October 2024*\n\n* Security - ACF Free now uses its own update mechanism from WP Engine servers\n\n= 6.3.6 =\n*Release Date 28th August 2024*\n\n* Security - Newly added fields now have to be explicitly set to allow access in the content editor (when using the ACF shortcode or Block Bindings) to increase the security around field permissions. [See the release notes for more details](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-3-6/#field-value-access-editor)\n* Security Fix - Field labels are now correctly escaped when rendered in the Field Group editor, to prevent a potential XSS issue. Thanks to Ryo Sotoyama of Mitsui Bussan Secure Directions, Inc. for the responsible disclosure\n* Fix - Validation and Block AJAX requests nonces will no longer be overridden by third party plugins\n* Fix - Detection of third party select2 libraries will now default to v4 rather than v3\n* Fix - Block previews will now display an error if the render template PHP file is not found\n\n= 6.3.5 =\n*Release Date 1st August 2024*\n\n* Fix - The ACF Shortcode now correctly outputs a comma separated list of values for arrays\n* Fix - ACF Blocks rendered in auto mode now correctly re-render their previews after editing fields\n* Fix - ACF Block validation no longer raises required validation messages if HTML will automatically select the first value when rendered\n* Fix - ACF Block validation no longer raises required validation messages if a default value will be rendered as the field value\n* Fix - ACF Block validation no longer raises required validation messages for fields hidden by conditional logic when adding a new block\n\n= 6.3.4 =\n*Release Date 18th July 2024*\n\n* Security Fix - The ACF shortcode now prevents access to fields from different private posts by default. View the [release notes](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-3-4) for more information\n* Fix - Users without the `edit_posts` capability but with custom capabilities for a editing a custom post type, can now correctly load field groups loaded via conditional location rules\n* Fix - Block validation no longer validates a field’s sub fields on page load, only on edit. This resolves inconsistent validation errors on page load or when first adding a block\n* Fix - Deactivating an ACF PRO license will now remove the license key even if the server call fails\n* Fix - Field types returning objects no longer cause PHP warnings and errors when output via `the_field`, `the_sub_field` or the ACF shortcode, or when retrieved by a `get_` function with the escape html parameter set\n* Fix - Server side errors during block rendering now gracefully displays an error to the editor\n\n= 6.3.3 =\n*Release Date 27th June 2024*\n\n* Enhancement - All dashicons are now available to the icon picker field type\n* Fix - The True/False field now correctly shows it’s description message beside the switch when using the Stylized UI setting\n* Fix - Conditional logic values now correctly load options when loaded over AJAX\n* Fix - ACF PRO will no longer trigger license validation calls when loading a front-end page\n* i18n - Fixed an untranslatable string on Option Page previews\n\n= 6.3.2.1 =\n*Release Date 24th June 2024*\n*PRO Only Release*\n\n* Fix - ACF Blocks no longer trigger a JavaScript error when fetched via AJAX\n\n= 6.3.2 =\n*Release Date 24th June 2024*\n\n* Security Fix - ACF now generates different nonces for each AJAX-enabled field, preventing subscribers or front-end form users from querying other field results\n* Security Fix - ACF now correctly verifies permissions for certain editor only actions, preventing subscribers performing those actions\n* Security Fix - Deprecated a legacy private internal field type (output) to prevent it being able to output unsafe HTML\n* Security Fix - Improved handling of some SQL filters and other internal functions to ensure output is always correctly escaped\n* Security Fix - ACF now includes blank index.php files in all folders to prevent directory listing of ACF plugin folders for incorrectly configured web servers\n\n= 6.3.1.2 =\n*Release Date 6th June 2024*\n*PRO Only Release*\n\n* Fix - ACF Blocks in widget areas no longer cause a fatal error when no context is available\n* Fix - ACF Blocks with no fields assigned no longer show a gap in the sidebar where the form would render\n\n= 6.3.1.1 =\n*Release Date 6th June 2024*\n*PRO Only Release*\n\n* Fix - Repeater and Flexible Content fields no longer error when duplicating or removing rows containing Icon Picker subfields\n* Fix - ACF Blocks containing Flexible Content fields now correctly load their edit form\n* Fix - ACF Blocks no longer have a race condition where the data store is not initialized when read\n* Fix - ACF Blocks no longer trigger a JS error for blocks without fields and with an empty no-fields message\n* Fix - ACF Block preloading now works correctly for fields consuming custom block context\n* Fix - ACF Block JavaScript debug messages now correctly appear when SCRIPT_DEBUG is true\n\n= 6.3.1 =\n*Release Date 4th June 2024*\n\n* Enhancement - Options Pages registered in the UI can now be duplicated\n* Fix - ACF Block validation now correctly validates Repeater, Group, and Flexible Content fields\n* Fix - ACF Block validation now correctly validates when a field is using a non-default return type\n* Fix - Fields moved between field groups now correctly updates both JSON files\n* Fix - Icon Picker fields now render correctly when using left-aligned labels\n* Fix - Icon Picker fields no longer renders tabs if only one tab is selected for display\n* Fix - Icon Picker fields no longer crash the post editor if no icon picker tabs are selected for displayed\n* Fix - True/False field now better handles longer On/Off labels\n* Fix - Select2 results loaded by AJAX for multi-select Taxonomy fields no longer double encode HTML entities\n\n= 6.3.0.1 =\n*Release Date 22nd May 2024*\n\n* Fix - A possible fatal error no longer occurs in the new site health functionality for ACF PRO users\n* Fix - A possible undefined index error no longer occurs in ACF Blocks for ACF PRO users\n\n= 6.3.0 =\n*Release Date 22nd May 2024*\n\n* New - ACF now requires WordPress version 6.0 or newer, and PHP 7.4 or newer.\n* New - ACF Blocks now support validation rules for fields. View the [release notes](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-3-0-released) for more information\n* New - ACF Blocks now supports storing field data in the postmeta table rather than in the post content\n* New - Conditional logic rules for fields now support selecting specific values for post objects, page links, taxonomies, relationships and users rather than having to enter the ID\n* New - New Icon Picker field type for ACF and ACF PRO\n* New - Icon selection for a custom post type menu icon\n* New - Icon selection for an options page menu icon\n* New - ACF now surfaces debug and status information in the WordPress Site Health area\n* New - The escaped html notice can now be permanently dismissed\n* Enhancement - Tab field now supports a `selected` attribute to specify which should be selected by default, and support class attributes\n* Fix - Block Preloading now works reliably in WordPress 6.5 or newer\n* Fix - Select2 results loaded by AJAX for post object fields no longer double encode HTML entities\n* Fix - Custom post types registered with ACF will now have custom field support enabled by default to better support revisions\n* Fix - The first preview after publishing a post in the classic editor now displays ACF fields correctly\n* Fix - ACF fields and Flexible Content layouts are now correctly positioned while dragging\n* Fix - Copying the title of a field inside a Flexible Content layout no longer adds whitespace to the copied value\n* Fix - Flexible Content layout names are no longer converted to lowercase when edited\n* Fix - ACF Blocks with attributes without a default now correctly register\n* Fix - User fields no longer trigger a 404 when loading results if the nonce generated only contains numbers\n* Fix - Description fields for ACF items now support being solely numeric characters\n* Fix - The field group header no longer appears above the WordPress admin menu on small screens\n* Fix - The `acf/json/save_file_name` filter now correctly applies when deleting JSON files\n* i18n - All errors raised during ACF PRO license or update checks are now translatable\n* Other - The ACF Shortcode is now disabled by default for new installations of ACF as discussed in the [ACF 6.2.7 release notes](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-2-7-security-release/#security-and-the-acf-shortcode)\n\n= 6.2.10 =\n*Release Date 15th May 2024*\n\n* Security Fix - ACF Blocks no longer allow render templates, or render or asset callbacks to be overridden in the block's attributes. For full information, please read [the release blog post](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-pro-6-2-10-security-release/)\n\n= 6.2.9 =\n*Release Date 8th April 2024*\n\n* Enhancement - The Select2 escapeMarkup function can now be overridden when initializing a custom Select2\n* Fix - “Hide on Screen” settings are now correctly applied when using conditionally loaded field groups\n* Fix - Field names are no longer converted to lowercase when editing the name\n* Fix - Field group titles will no longer convert HTML entities into their encoded form\n\n= 6.2.8 =\n*Release Date 2nd April 2024*\n\n* New - Support for the Block Bindings API in WordPress 6.5 with a new `acf/field` source. For more information on how to use this, please read [the release blog post](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-2-8)\n* New - Support for performance improvements for translations in WordPress 6.5\n* Enhancement - A new JS filter, `select2_escape_markup` now allows fields to customize select2's HTML escaping behavior\n* Fix - Options pages can no longer set to have a parent of themselves\n* Fix - ACF PRO license activations on multisite subsite installs will now use the correct site URL\n* Fix - ACF PRO installed on multisite installs will no longer try to check for updates resulting in 404 errors when the updates page is not visible\n* Fix - ACF JSON no longer produces warnings on Windows servers when no ACF JSON folder is found\n* Fix - Field and layout names can now contain valid non-ASCII characters\n* Other - ACF PRO now requires a valid license to be activated in order to use PRO features. [Learn more](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/resources/license-activations/)\n\n= 6.2.7 =\n*Release Date 27th February 2024*\n\n* Security Fix - `the_field` now escapes potentially unsafe HTML as notified since ACF 6.2.5. For full information, please read [the release blog post](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-2-7-security-release/)\n* Security Fix - Field and Layout names are now enforced to alphanumeric characters, resolving a potential XSS issue\n* Security Fix - The default render template for select2 fields no longer allows HTML to be rendered resolving a potential XSS issue\n* Security Enhancement - A `acf/shortcode/prevent_access` filter is now available to limit what data the ACF shortcode is allowed to access\n* Security Enhancement - i18n translated strings are now escaped on output\n* Enhancement - ACF now universally uses WordPress file system functions rather than native PHP functions\n\n= 6.2.6.1 =\n*Release Date 7th February 2024*\n\n* Fix - Fatal JS error no longer occurs when editing fields in the classic editor when Yoast or other plugins which load block editor components are installed\n* Fix - Using `$escape_html` on get functions for array returning field types no longer produces an Array to string conversion error\n\n= 6.2.6 =\n*Release Date 6th February 2024*\n\n* Enhancement - The `get_field()` and other `get_` functions now support an `escape_html` parameter which return an HTML safe field value\n* Enhancement - The URL field will be now escaped with `esc_url` rather than `wp_kses_post` when returning an HTML safe value\n* Fix - ACF fields will now correctly save into the WordPress created revision resolving issues with previews of drafts on WordPress 6.4 or newer\n* Fix - Multisite subsites will now correctly be activated by the main site where the ACF PRO license allows, hiding the updates page on those subsites\n* Fix - Field types in which the `required` property would have no effect (such as the tab, or accordion) will no longer show the option\n* Fix - Duplicating a field group now maintains the current page of field groups being displayed\n* Fix - Fields in ACF Blocks in edit mode in hybrid themes will now use ACF's styling, rather than some attributes being overridden by the theme\n* Fix - Text in some admin notices will no longer overlap the dismiss button\n* Fix - The word `link` is now prohibited from being used as a CPT name to avoid a WordPress core conflict\n* Fix - Flexible content layouts can no longer be duplicated over their maximum count limit\n* Fix - All ACF notifications shown outside of ACF's admin screens are now prefixed with the plugin name\n* Fix - ACF no longer checks if a polyfill is needed for \u003cPHP7 and the polyfill has been removed\n\n= 6.2.5 =\n*Release Date 16th January 2024*\n\n* Security Fix - The ACF shortcode will now run all output through `wp_kses`, escaping unsafe HTML. This may be a breaking change to your site but is required for security, a message will be shown in WordPress admin if you are affected. Please see the [blog post for this release for more information.](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-2-5-security-release/) Thanks to Francesco Carlucci via Wordfence for the responsible disclosure\n* Security - ACF now warns via an admin message, when upcoming changes to `the_field` and `the_sub_field` may require theme changes to your site to avoid stripping unsafe HTML. Please see the [blog post for this release for more information](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-2-5-security-release/)\n* Security - Users may opt in to automatically escaping unsafe HTML via a new filter `acf/the_field/escape_html_optin` when using `the_field` and `the_sub_field` before this becomes default in an upcoming ACF release.\n\n= 6.2.4 =\n*Release Date 28th November 2023*\n\n* Fix - Custom Post Types labels now match the WordPress 6.4 behavior for \"Add New\" labels\n* Fix - When exporting both post types and taxonomies as PHP, taxonomies will now appear before post types, matching the order ACF registers them. This resolves issues where taxonomy slugs will not work in post type permalinks\n* Fix - Advanced Settings for Taxonomies, Post Types or Options Pages now display with the correct top padding when toggled on\n* Fix - When a parent option page is set to \"Redirect to Child Page\", the child page will now correctly show it's parent setting\n* Fix - When activated as a must-use plugin, the ACF PRO \"Updates\" page is now visible. Use the existing `show_updates` setting to hide\n* Fix - When activated as a must-use plugin, ACF PRO licenses defined in code will now correctly activate sites\n* Fix - When `show_updates` is set or filtered to false, ACF PRO will now automatically still activate defined licenses\n* i18n - Maintenance and internal upstream messages from the ACF PRO activation server are now translatable\n\n= 6.2.3 =\n*Release Date 15th November 2023*\n\n* [View Release Post](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-2-3/)\n* New - An ACF Blocks specific JSON schema for block.json is now available on [GitHub](https://github.com/AdvancedCustomFields/schemas)\n* New - Flexible Content fields now show the layout name in the layout's header bar and supports click-to-copy\n* New - Duplicating Flexible Content layouts now appends \"Copy\" to their name and label, matching the behavior of field group duplication\n* Enhancement - ACF PRO will now automatically attempt license reactivation when the site URL changes, e.g. after a site migration. This resolves issues where updates may fail\n* Enhancement - Presentation setting for \"High\" placement of the Field Group made clear that it's not supported in the block editor\n* Fix - `acf_format_date` now ensures the date parameter is valid to prevent fatal errors if other data types are passed in\n* Fix - CPTs with a custom icon URL now display the posts icon in the location column of the field groups screen\n* Fix - The ACF JSON import form will now disable on first submit resolving an issue where you could submit the form twice\n* Fix - The \"Add Row\" button in the Flexible Content field now displays correctly when using nested layouts\n* Fix - Warning and Error notices no longer flicker on ACF admin pages load\n* i18n - ACF PRO license activation success and error messages are now translatable\n\n= 6.2.2 =\n*Release Date 25th October 2023*\n\n* Enhancement - ACF Blocks which have not been initialized by the editor will now render correctly\n* Enhancement - Added a new `acf/filesize` filter to allow third party media plugins to bypass ACF calling `filesize()` on attachments with uncached file sizes, which may result in a remote download if offloaded\n* Enhancement - ACF PRO license status and subscription expiry dates are now displayed on the “Updates” page\n* Fix - Product pages for WooCommerce version 8.2 or newer now correctly support field group location rules\n* Fix - Relationship field items can now be removed on mobile devices\n* Fix - Color picker fields no longer autocomplete immediately after typing 3 valid hex characters\n* Fix - Field settings no longer appear misaligned when the viewport is something other than 100%\n* Fix - Select fields without an aria-label no longer throw a warning\n* Fix - CPTs and Taxonomies with a custom text domain now export correctly when using PHP export\n\n= 6.2.1.1 =\n*Release Date 8th September 2023*\n\n* Fix - Editing a field group no longer generates an error when UI options pages are disabled\n\n= 6.2.1 =\n*Release Date 7th September 2023*\n\n* New - Options Pages created in the admin UI can now be assigned as child pages for any top-level menu item\n* New - Added a \"Title Placeholder\" setting to ACF Post Types which filters the \"Add title\" text when editing posts\n* Enhancement - ACF PRO will now warn when it can't update due to PHP version incompatibilities\n* Enhancement - ACF PRO will now work correctly with WordPress automatic updates\n* Enhancement - The internal ACF Blocks template attribute parser function `parseNodeAttr` can now be shortcut with the new `acf_blocks_parse_node_attr` filter.\n* Enhancement - Removed legacy code for supporting WordPress versions under 5.8\n* Fix - The \"Menu Position\" setting is no longer hidden for child options pages\n* Fix - The tabs for the \"Advanced\" settings in Post Types and Taxonomies are now rendered inside a wrapper div\n* Fix - Options pages will no longer display as a child page in the list view when set to a top level page after previously being a child\n* Fix - Conflict with Elementor CSS breaking the ACF PRO banner\n* Fix - Errors generated during the block editor's `savePost` function will no longer be caught and ignored by ACF\n\n= 6.2.0 =\n*Release Date 9th August 2023*\n\n* [View Release Post](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-2-0-released/)\n* New - ACF now requires WordPress version 5.8 or newer, and PHP 7.0 or newer. View the [release post](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-2-0-released/#version-requirements) for more information\n* New - Bidirectional Relationships now supported for Relationship, Post Object, User and Taxonomy fields. View the [release post](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/blog/acf-6-2-0-released/#bidirectional-relationships) for more information\n* New - [Options Pages](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/resources/options-page/) can now be registered and managed by the admin UI in ACF PRO\n* New - Link to the [product feedback board](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/feedback/) added to the plugin footer\n* Enhancement - ACF JSON now supports multiple save locations (props Freddy Leitner)\n* Enhancement - ACF Post Types and Taxonomies can now be duplicated\n* Enhancement - The filename for JSON files can now be customized with the `acf/json/save_file_name` filter\n* Fix - REST updates of fields with choices containing integer or mixed keys now behave correctly\n* Fix - Using the `block_type_metadata_settings` PHP filter to add usesContext values no longer breaks ACF blocks\n* Fix - Notice to import post types/taxonomies from CPTUI no longer flashes on page load\n* Fix - Various buttons for fields in blocks now display correctly\n* Fix - The settings for the DateTime field are no longer cut off when nested in several fields in the field group editor\n* Fix - The newline added to the end of JSON files will now use `PHP_EOL` to detect the correct newline character with a filter `acf/json/eof_newline` to alter it.\n* i18n - Updated French and Portuguese translations (Thanks to pedro-mendonca and maximebj)\n\n[View the full changelog](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/changelog/)\n\n== Upgrade Notice ==","meta":{"last_version":"6.4.3"},"ip":"107.180.250.162","timestamp":"2025-09-09T15:51:29.758998+05:30","curl-command":"curl -X 'GET' -d '' -H 'Accept: */*' -H 'Accept-Language: en' -H 'User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Fedora; Linux x86_64; rv:126.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/126.0' 'https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/advanced-custom-fields/readme.txt'","matcher-status":true}
{"template":"http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/akismet.yaml","template-url":"https://cloud.projectdiscovery.io/public/wordpress-akismet","template-id":"wordpress-akismet","template-path":"/Users/ayushi/nuclei-templates/http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/akismet.yaml","info":{"name":"Akismet Anti-spam' Spam Protection Detection","author":["ricardomaia"],"tags":["tech","wordpress","wp-plugin","top-100","top-200"],"reference":["https://wordpress.org/plugins/akismet/"],"severity":"info","metadata":{"plugin_namespace":"akismet","wpscan":"https://wpscan.com/plugin/akismet"}},"extractor-name":"detected_version","type":"http","host":"hypertrends.com","port":"443","scheme":"https","url":"https://hypertrends.com","matched-at":"https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/akismet/readme.txt","extracted-results":["5.5"],"request":"GET /wp-content/plugins/akismet/readme.txt HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: hypertrends.com\r\nUser-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (ZZ; Linux x86_64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/118.0.0.0 Safari/537.36\r\nAccept: */*\r\nAccept-Language: en\r\nAccept-Encoding: gzip\r\n\r\n","response":"HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r\nConnection: close\r\nTransfer-Encoding: chunked\r\nContent-Security-Policy: default-src * 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval' data: blob:;\r\nContent-Type: text/plain\r\nDate: Tue, 09 Sep 2025 10:21:29 GMT\r\nEtag: W/\"689196bb-16ad\"\r\nLast-Modified: Tue, 05 Aug 2025 05:29:31 GMT\r\nReferrer-Policy: no-referrer-when-downgrade\r\nServer: nginx\r\nStrict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000;\r\nVary: Accept-Encoding\r\nX-Content-Type-Options: nosniff\r\nX-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN\r\nX-Rocket-Nginx-Serving-Static: MISS\r\nX-Xss-Protection: 1; mode=block\r\n\r\n=== Akismet Anti-spam: Spam Protection ===\nContributors: matt, ryan, andy, mdawaffe, tellyworth, josephscott, lessbloat, eoigal, cfinke, automattic, jgs, procifer, stephdau, kbrownkd, bluefuton, derekspringer, lschuyler, andyperdomo, akismetantispam\nTags: comments, spam, antispam, anti-spam, contact form\nRequires at least: 5.8\nTested up to: 6.8.1\nStable tag: 5.5\nLicense: GPLv2 or later\n\nThe best anti-spam protection to block spam comments and spam in a contact form. The most trusted antispam solution for WordPress and WooCommerce.\n\n== Description ==\n\nThe best anti-spam protection to block spam comments and spam in a contact form. The most trusted antispam solution for WordPress and WooCommerce.\n\nAkismet checks your comments and contact form submissions against our global database of spam to prevent your site from publishing malicious content. You can review the comment spam it catches on your blog's \"Comments\" admin screen.\n\nMajor features in Akismet include:\n\n* Automatically checks all comments and filters out the ones that look like spam.\n* Each comment has a status history, so you can easily see which comments were caught or cleared by Akismet and which were spammed or unspammed by a moderator.\n* URLs are shown in the comment body to reveal hidden or misleading links.\n* Moderators can see the number of approved comments for each user.\n* A discard feature that outright blocks the worst spam, saving you disk space and speeding up your site.\n\nPS: You'll be prompted to get an Akismet.com API key to use it, once activated. Keys are free for personal blogs; paid subscriptions are available for businesses and commercial sites.\n\n== Installation ==\n\nUpload the Akismet plugin to your blog, activate it, and then enter your Akismet.com API key.\n\n1, 2, 3: You're done!\n\n== Changelog ==\n\n= 5.5 =\n*Release Date - 15 July 2025*\n\n* Enable webhooks so that Akismet can process comments asynchronously to detect more types of spam.\n* Only include the Akismet widget CSS when the Akismet widget is present\n* Improve contrast/readability for certain UI elements\n\n= 5.4 =\n*Release Date - 7 May 2025*\n\n* The stats pages now use the user's locale instead of the site's locale if they're different.\n* Adds a 'Compatible plugins' section that will show installed and active plugins that are compatible with Akismet.\n* Akismet now requires PHP version 7.2 or above.\n\n= 5.3.7 =\n*Release Date - 14 February 2025*\n\n* Simplify the logic used during a comment-check request to compare comments.\n\n= 5.3.6 =\n*Release Date - 4 February 2025*\n\n* Improve the utility of submit-spam and submit-ham requests.\n* Modernize styles for the Akismet classic widget.\n\n= 5.3.5 =\n*Release Date - 18 November 2024*\n\n* Address compatibility issues with \u003c PHP 7.3 in v5.3.4 release.\n\n= 5.3.4 =\n*Release Date - 18 November 2024*\n\n* Improve activation notice on Comments for users who haven't set up their API key yet.\n* Improve notice about commercial site status.\n\n= 5.3.3 =\n*Release Date - 10 July 2024*\n\n* Make setup step clearer for new users.\n* Remove the stats section from the configuration page if the site has been revoked from the key.\n* Skip the Akismet comment check when the comment matches something in the disallowed list.\n* Prompt users on legacy plans to contact Akismet support for upgrades.\n\n= 5.3.2 =\n*Release Date - 21 March 2024*\n\n* Improve the empty state shown to new users when no spam has been caught yet.\n* Update the message shown to users without a current subscription.\n* Add foundations for future webhook support.\n\n= 5.3.1 =\n*Release Date - 17 January 2024*\n\n* Make the plugin more resilient when asset files are missing (as seen in WordPress Playground).\n* Add a link to the 'Account overview' page on akismet.com.\n* Fix a minor error that occurs when another plugin removes all comment actions from the dashboard.\n* Add the akismet_request_args filter to allow request args in Akismet API requests to be filtered.\n* Fix a bug that causes some contact forms to include unnecessary data in the comment_content parameter.\n\n= 5.3 =\n*Release Date - 14 September 2023*\n\n* Improve display of user notices.\n* Add stylesheets for RTL languages.\n* Remove initial disabled state from 'Save changes' button.\n* Improve accessibility of API key entry form.\n* Add new filter hooks for Fluent Forms.\n* Fix issue with PHP 8.1 compatibility.\n\n= 5.2 =\n*Release Date - 21 June 2023*\n\n* Visual refresh of Akismet stats.\n* Improve PHP 8.1 compatibility.\n* Improve appearance of plugin to match updated stats.\n* Change minimum supported PHP version to 5.6 to match WordPress.\n* Drop IE11 support and update minimum WordPress version to 5.8 (where IE11 support was removed from WP Core).\n\n= 5.1 =\n*Release Date - 20 March 2023*\n\n* Removed unnecessary limit notices from admin page.\n* Improved spam detection by including post taxonomies in the comment-check call.\n* Removed API keys from stats iframes to avoid possible inadvertent exposure.\n\n= 5.0.2 =\n*Release Date - 1 December 2022*\n\n* Improved compatibility with themes that hide or show UI elements based on mouse movements.\n* Increased security of API keys by sending them in request bodies instead of subdomains.\n\n= 5.0.1 =\n*Release Date - 28 September 2022*\n\n* Added an empty state for the Statistics section on the admin page.\n* Fixed a bug that broke some admin page links when Jetpack plugins are active.\n* Marked some event listeners as passive to improve performance in newer browsers.\n* Disabled interaction observation on forms that post to other domains.\n\n= 5.0 =\n*Release Date - 26 July 2022*\n\n* Added a new feature to catch spammers by observing how they interact with the page.\n\nFor older changelog entries, please see the [additional changelog.txt file](https://plugins.svn.wordpress.org/akismet/trunk/changelog.txt) delivered with the plugin.\n","meta":{"last_version":"5.5"},"ip":"107.180.250.162","timestamp":"2025-09-09T15:51:29.767032+05:30","curl-command":"curl -X 'GET' -d '' -H 'Accept: */*' -H 'Accept-Language: en' -H 'User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (ZZ; Linux x86_64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/118.0.0.0 Safari/537.36' 'https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/akismet/readme.txt'","matcher-status":true}
{"template":"http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/all-in-one-wp-migration.yaml","template-url":"https://cloud.projectdiscovery.io/public/wordpress-all-in-one-wp-migration","template-id":"wordpress-all-in-one-wp-migration","template-path":"/Users/ayushi/nuclei-templates/http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/all-in-one-wp-migration.yaml","info":{"name":"All-in-One WP Migration and Backup Detection","author":["ricardomaia"],"tags":["tech","wordpress","wp-plugin","top-100","top-200"],"reference":["https://wordpress.org/plugins/all-in-one-wp-migration/"],"severity":"info","metadata":{"plugin_namespace":"all-in-one-wp-migration","wpscan":"https://wpscan.com/plugin/all-in-one-wp-migration"}},"extractor-name":"detected_version","type":"http","host":"hypertrends.com","port":"443","scheme":"https","url":"https://hypertrends.com","matched-at":"https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/all-in-one-wp-migration/readme.txt","extracted-results":["7.98"],"request":"GET /wp-content/plugins/all-in-one-wp-migration/readme.txt HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: hypertrends.com\r\nUser-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux i686; rv:128.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/128.0\r\nAccept: */*\r\nAccept-Language: en\r\nAccept-Encoding: gzip\r\n\r\n","response":"HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r\nConnection: close\r\nTransfer-Encoding: chunked\r\nContent-Security-Policy: default-src * 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval' data: blob:;\r\nContent-Type: text/plain\r\nDate: Tue, 09 Sep 2025 10:21:30 GMT\r\nEtag: W/\"68b00f1b-2cef\"\r\nLast-Modified: Thu, 28 Aug 2025 08:11:07 GMT\r\nReferrer-Policy: no-referrer-when-downgrade\r\nServer: nginx\r\nStrict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000;\r\nVary: Accept-Encoding\r\nX-Content-Type-Options: nosniff\r\nX-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN\r\nX-Rocket-Nginx-Serving-Static: MISS\r\nX-Xss-Protection: 1; mode=block\r\n\r\n=== All-in-One WP Migration and Backup ===\nContributors: yani.iliev, bangelov, pimjitsawang\nTags: backup, transfer, copy, move, clone\nRequires at least: 3.3\nTested up to: 6.8\nRequires PHP: 5.3\nStable tag: 7.98\nLicense: GPLv3 or later\n\nTrusted by 60M+ sites: The gold standard for WordPress migrations, backups, and site transfers since 2013.\n\n== Description ==\n**The Most Trusted WordPress Migration \u0026 Backup Solution Since 2013**\n\nAll-in-One WP Migration is the gold standard for WordPress site migration, used by over 60 million websites worldwide - from small blogs to Fortune 500 companies and government agencies. Our plugin offers enterprise-grade reliability with beginner-friendly simplicity.\n\n**Why Choose All-in-One WP Migration?**\n\n* **Effortless Migration**: Export your entire site with a single click - including database, media, themes, and plugins\n* **Zero Downtime**: Complete your migration with no service interruptions\n* **Universal Compatibility**: Works across all hosting providers, from budget shared hosting to high-end dedicated servers\n* **Technical Excellence**: Engineered for reliability with memory-efficient processing (512KB chunks), ideal for resource-limited environments\n* **No Technical Skills Required**: Intuitive interface designed for users of all skill levels\n* **Cross-Database Support**: Seamlessly move between MySQL, MariaDB, and SQLite databases\n* **Secure \u0026 Reliable**: Trusted by Boeing, NASA, Harvard, Stanford, Automattic, and government agencies worldwide\n\n**How It Works - Simple as 1-2-3:**\n\n1. **Install** the plugin on your source and destination sites\n2. **Export** your site to a .wpress file with one click\n3. **Import** using our drag-and-drop importer on your destination site\n\n**For Developers \u0026 Power Users:**\n\n* **Advanced Find \u0026 Replace**: Control exactly what changes during migration\n* **Selective Content Migration**: Include/exclude specific content types\n* **PHP 5.3-8.4 Compatibility**: Works across virtually all hosting environments\n* **Custom WPress Format**: Our optimized archive format ensures data integrity\n* **Hook System**: Extensive API for custom integration and workflows\n* **Command-Line Support**: Automate migrations via WP-CLI\n\n**Premium Extensions:**\n\nEnhance your migration workflow with our [premium extensions](https://servmask.com/products) for:\n\n* **Unlimited Site Size**: Migrate sites of any size\n* **Cloud Storage Integration**: Direct migration to/from Dropbox, Google Drive, OneDrive, and more\n* **Multisite Support**: Migrate complex WordPress networks\n* **Scheduled Backups**: Automated, recurring backups\n* **Database Filtering**: Exclude specific tables or data\n\n**Features Spotlight:**\n\n* WCAG 2.1 AA Level accessibility compliance\n* Mobile-responsive interface\n* [Browse WPRESS files online](https://traktor.servmask.com) or [extract locally](https://traktor.wp-migration.com)\n* Automatic URL and path replacement\n* WordPress Playground integration for SQLite/MySQL migration\n* Regular bi-weekly updates ensuring compatibility with the latest WordPress versions\n* Available in 50+ languages including Japanese\n\n**Trusted by the Government and Big Corporations:**\n\nMany enterprise customers, government organizations, and universities use, love, and trust All-in-One WP Migration. Here are some: Boeing, NASA, VW, IBM, Harvard University, Stanford University, Lego, P\u0026G, Automattic, State of California, State of Hawaii.\nThis broad adoption and usage of All-in-One WP Migration demonstrate how **safe, reliable and adaptable** the plugin is for just about any website migration need.\n\n**Update Frequency:**\nOur team is dedicated to keeping All-in-One WP Migration up-to-date and secure. We release updates every two weeks or at least once a month, ensuring compatibility with the latest WordPress versions, including beta releases. Our proactive testing and feedback to the WordPress core team help in preemptively addressing any potential issues, providing our users with a reliable and forward-compatible migration and backup solution.\n\n**Full Compatibility and Support:**\n\nAll-in-One WP Migration has been extensively tested and confirmed to be compatible with most WordPress plugins and themes.\nThis means you don't get to experience cross-plugin compatibility issues that can slow down, bug, or break down your WordPress website when you install and use All-in-One WP Migration.\nAs a matter of fact, All-in-One WP Migration has partnered with multiple theme/plugin vendors to distribute their themes/plugins with us as a single, easy to use, easy to install package.\nThese vendors trust us and our plugin to provide their customers with reliable product delivery, support, migrations, and backups.\n\n**Cloud Storage Supported:**\n\nAll-in-One WP Migration supports and syncs seamlessly with top cloud storage services.\nThe plugin comes preinstalled on all Bitnami WordPress sites running on AWS, Google Compute Cloud, and Microsoft Azure.\n\n**Case Studies:**\n\n* Small Business Growth: A small online retailer was able to seamlessly migrate to a more robust hosting solution to handle increasing traffic during peak shopping seasons, ensuring smooth customer experiences without downtime.\n* Educational Institutions: A prominent university utilized All-in-One WP Migration to consolidate multiple departmental sites into a single, unified WordPress network, simplifying management and enhancing site security.\n* Government Reliability: Following a directive to improve digital accessibility, a government agency used our plugin to migrate their content to a new, compliant platform without impacting public access to critical information.\n\n= Contact us =\n* [Report a security vulnerability](https://patchstack.com/database/vdp/all-in-one-wp-migration)\n* [Get free help from us here](https://servmask.com/help)\n* [Report a bug or request a feature](https://servmask.com/help)\n* [Find out more about us](https://servmask.com)\n\n[youtube http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BpWxCeUWBOk]\n\n[youtube http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRp7qTFYKgs]\n\n== Installation ==\n1. All-in-One WP Migration can be installed directly through your WordPress Plugins dashboard.\n1. Click \"Add New\" and Search for \"All-in-One WP Migration\"\n1. Install and Activate\n\nAlternatively, you can download the plugin using the download button on this page and then upload the all-in-one-wp-migration folder to the /wp-content/plugins/ directory then activate throught the Plugins dashboard in WordPress\n\n== Screenshots ==\n1. Mobile Export page\n2. Mobile Import page\n3. Plugin Menu\n\n== Privacy Policy ==\nAll-in-One WP Migration is designed to fully respect and protect the personal information of its users. It asks for your consent to collect the user's email address when filling the plugin's contact form.\nAll-in-One WP Migration is in full compliance with General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).\nSee our [GDPR Compliant Privacy Policy here](https://www.iubenda.com/privacy-policy/946881).\n\n== Changelog ==\n= 7.98 =\n**Added**\n\n* WP_IMPORTING constant for better hosting providers compatibility\n\n**Fixed**\n\n* Stored Cross-Site Scripting vulnerability in file upload (CVE-2025-8490). Thank you WordFence and Jack Pas for reporting this. [What you need to know](https://help.servmask.com/knowledgebase/cve-2025-8490-what-you-need-to-know).\n* File upload exceptions handling for better error reporting\n\n**Improved**\n\n* PHP 8 compatibility issues in MySQLi database handler\n* File uploader refactored for enhanced security and reliability\n\n= 7.97 =\n**Added**\n\n* SQLite support in AUTO_INCREMENT check\n\n**Fixed**\n\n* Database replacement for serialized values to handle edge cases with string length validation\n\n= 7.96 =\n**Added**\n\n* Admin notice warning when AUTO_INCREMENT is missing on wp_options table\n\n= 7.95 =\n**Added**\n\n* New action hook ai1wm_status_export_init for developers on export initialization\n\n**Fixed**\n\n* Theme export progress display showing incorrect percentage\n* Uninstall.php script functionality\n* Export and import button ordering\n* Dropdown height styling issues\n\n= 7.94 =\n**Added**\n\n* Refresh Elementor plugin cache on import\n\n= 7.93 =\n**Fixed**\n\n* Compatibility issue with PHP 7 and PHP 5 due to trailing comma in style registration\n\n= 7.92 =\n**Improved**\n\n* Passed Plugin Check Plugin (PCP) validation\n* Archive name generation\n\n= 7.91 =\n**Added**\n\n* CiviCRM for WordPress support\n\n= 7.90 =\n**Added**\n\n* Introduced a constant to disable MySQL late row lookups for enhanced database performance\n\n**Improved**\n\n* Enhanced SQLite database integration for improved stability and efficiency\n* Strengthened serialization replacement mechanism to address an unauthenticated PHP Object Injection vulnerability (CVE-2024-10942). Special thanks to Webbernaut for responsibly disclosing this issue\n* Preserved the wp_rocket_settings option during exports for improved user experience\n\n**Fixed**\n\n* Resolved PHP 8.4 deprecation warnings\n\n= 7.89 =\n**Improved**\n\n* Upgraded to Node.js 22 for better performance and security\n* Updated all plugin dependencies to keep things running smoothly and securely\n\n= 7.88 =\n**Fixed**\n\n* Fixed an issue where the upload progress was stuck at 100%\n* Fixed an issue where the upload could not be cancelled before it was completed\n\n**Improved**\n\n* Improved user-facing messages to be friendlier, direct, consistent, and more informative.\n\n= 7.87 =\n**Fixed**\n\n* Resolved a vulnerability where error logs were publicly accessible with a known name by appending random affixes to error log filenames, making them unguessable. Error logs are now automatically deleted daily and during plugin updates. Special thanks to villu164 for responsibly disclosing this issue.\n* Resolved a vulnerability where an administrator user could inject arbitrary PHP code through specific inputs. This vulnerability requires administrator-level access to exploit, ensuring that unauthorized users cannot perform this action. Special thanks to Ryan Kozak for responsibly disclosing this issue.\n\n= 7.86 =\n**Fixed**\n\n* Resolved an issue with PHP 8.4 compatibility and restoring backup files via WP-CLI\n\n= 7.85 =\n**Added**\n\n* PHP 8.4 compatibility\n\n= 7.84 =\n**Added**\n\n* New hooks during the export and import processes to allow for custom actions and integrations\n\n= 7.83 =\n**Fixed**\n\n* Resolved an issue where downloading backup files was failing on WordPress Playground environments\n\n= 7.82 =\n**Added**\n\n* SQLite support\n* WordPress Playground support\n\n= 7.81 =\n**Added**\n\n* Reset Hub Page: Introducing a new reset hub page, providing users with powerful reset tools for efficient site management. This feature allows for easier resets of WordPress environments, facilitating smoother development and testing workflows.\n\n**Improved**\n\n* Better W3TC Support\n* PHP Compatibility Checks: Display a warning notification, when you move/restore your site to a different PHP version.\n\n= 7.80 =\n**Added**\n\n* Support for update-services plugin\n* Domain name conversion to dashes from dots in the backup name for improved hosting providers compatibility\n\n**Improved**\n\n* Better support for Multisite to Standalone and Standalone to Multisite exports and imports, streamlining the migration process\n\n= 7.79 =\n**Added**\n\n* Support for WordPress v6.4\n\n= 7.78 =\n**Added**\n\n* Implemented a new Schedules page within the plugin, displaying various advanced features exclusive to premium extensions\n\n= 7.77 =\n**Added**\n\n* Tested the new version of WordPress 6.3\n\n= 7.76 =\n**Fixed**\n\n* Removed the [beta] label from advanced settings\n","meta":{"last_version":"7.97"},"ip":"107.180.250.162","timestamp":"2025-09-09T15:51:30.676824+05:30","curl-command":"curl -X 'GET' -d '' -H 'Accept: */*' -H 'Accept-Language: en' -H 'User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux i686; rv:128.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/128.0' 'https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/all-in-one-wp-migration/readme.txt'","matcher-status":true}
{"template":"http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/all-in-one-seo-pack.yaml","template-url":"https://cloud.projectdiscovery.io/public/wordpress-all-in-one-seo-pack","template-id":"wordpress-all-in-one-seo-pack","template-path":"/Users/ayushi/nuclei-templates/http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/all-in-one-seo-pack.yaml","info":{"name":"All in One SEO – Powerful SEO Plugin to Boost SEO Rankings \u0026 Increase Traffic Detection","author":["ricardomaia"],"tags":["tech","wordpress","wp-plugin","top-100","top-200"],"reference":["https://wordpress.org/plugins/all-in-one-seo-pack/"],"severity":"info","metadata":{"plugin_namespace":"all-in-one-seo-pack","wpscan":"https://wpscan.com/plugin/all-in-one-seo-pack"}},"extractor-name":"detected_version","type":"http","host":"hypertrends.com","port":"443","scheme":"https","url":"https://hypertrends.com","matched-at":"https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/all-in-one-seo-pack/readme.txt","extracted-results":["4.8.7"],"request":"GET /wp-content/plugins/all-in-one-seo-pack/readme.txt HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: hypertrends.com\r\nUser-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Mac OS X 13_2) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Edge/113.0 Safari/537.36\r\nAccept: */*\r\nAccept-Language: en\r\nAccept-Encoding: gzip\r\n\r\n","response":"HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r\nConnection: close\r\nTransfer-Encoding: chunked\r\nContent-Security-Policy: default-src * 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval' data: blob:;\r\nContent-Type: text/plain\r\nDate: Tue, 09 Sep 2025 10:21:30 GMT\r\nEtag: W/\"68b915d8-6450\"\r\nLast-Modified: Thu, 04 Sep 2025 04:30:16 GMT\r\nReferrer-Policy: no-referrer-when-downgrade\r\nServer: nginx\r\nStrict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000;\r\nVary: Accept-Encoding\r\nX-Content-Type-Options: nosniff\r\nX-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN\r\nX-Rocket-Nginx-Serving-Static: MISS\r\nX-Xss-Protection: 1; mode=block\r\n\r\n=== All in One SEO – Powerful SEO Plugin to Boost SEO Rankings \u0026 Increase Traffic ===\nContributors: aioseo, smub, benjaminprojas\nTags: SEO, Google Search Console, XML Sitemap, meta description, schema\nTested up to: 6.8\nRequires at least: 5.4\nRequires PHP: 7.2\nStable tag: 4.8.7\nLicense: GPLv3 or later\nLicense URI: https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.txt\n\nAIOSEO is the most powerful WordPress SEO plugin. Improve SEO rankings and traffic with comprehensive SEO tools and smart AI SEO optimizations!\n\n== Description ==\n\n### AIOSEO - The Best WordPress SEO Plugin \u0026 Toolkit ###\n\nAll in One SEO is the original WordPress SEO plugin started in 2007. Today, over 3 million website owners and SEO experts use AIOSEO for higher SEO rankings.\n\nOur users consistently rate [AIOSEO](https://aioseo.com/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin 'All in One SEO for WordPress') as the most comprehensive WordPress SEO plugin and marketing toolkit. It's the fastest way to optimize WordPress SEO settings, add schema markup, create XML sitemap, add local SEO, track SEO keyword rankings, automate internal linking, perform SEO audits, add Author SEO (EEAT), monitor SEO revisions, connect Google search console, and basically everything a SEO Pro would use to rank higher in search engines. \n\nWe have AI SEO features that help you optimize your posts for SEO by automatically generating SEO titles, meta descriptions, FAQs, key points, social media posts, and more.\n\n\u003e \u003cstrong\u003eAIOSEO Pro\u003c/strong\u003e\u003cbr /\u003e\n\u003e This is the lite version of the All in One WordPress SEO Pro plugin that comes with all the powerful SEO features you will ever need to rank higher in search engines including **smart SEO schema markup, advanced SEO modules, powerful SEO sitemap suite, local SEO module, SEO keyword ranking tracking, automatic internal linking, WooCommerce SEO**, and tons more. [Click here to purchase the best premium WordPress SEO plugin now!](https://aioseo.com/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin 'All in One SEO for WordPress')\n\nHere's why smart business owners, SEO experts, marketers, and developers love AIOSEO, and you will too!\n\n[youtube https://youtu.be/UbOYEEIvXvY]\n\n### What Makes AIOSEO Better than Other WordPress SEO Plugins ###\n\nAIOSEO is leading the innovation in WordPress SEO space, and our SEO features will give you a competitive advantage.\n\n* **Easy SEO Setup Wizard**\nOur SEO setup wizard optimizes your website's SEO settings based on your unique industry needs in less than 5 minutes.\n\n* **Smart Schema Markup (aka Rich Snippets)** \nGet better click through rate (CTR) and Google rich featured snippets using advanced SEO schema markups like FAQ schema, product schema, recipe schema markup, and dozens more using our custom [Schema Generator](https://aioseo.com/features/rich-snippets-schema/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin 'Schema Generator').\n\n* **AI Content Generator** \nSave time by automatically generating SEO titles, meta descriptions, FAQs, key points, social media posts, and more using our [AI Content Generator](https://aioseo.com/features/ai-content-generator/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin 'AI Content Generator').\n\n* **Unlimited SEO Keywords** \nOptimize for unlimited SEO keywords using our SEO content analyzer. Our TruSEO score gives you detailed content \u0026 readability analysis, so you can get higher SEO rankings.\n\n* **Google Keyword Rank Tracking**\nEasily track how your website is ranking for different keywords in Google from your [WordPress dashboard](https://aioseo.com/features/search-statistics/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin 'Google Keyword Rank Tracker').\n\n* **Automatic Link Assistant**\nAutomate internal links between your pages using our smart [internal linking algorithm](https://aioseo.com/features/internal-link-assistant/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin 'Link Assistant') that will help improve on-page SEO.\n\n* **Local Business SEO**\nImprove your local SEO presence with local business schema, support for multiple local store locations, business opening hours, Google Maps integration, contact info (business email, business phone, business address, etc), and more with our [Local SEO module](https://aioseo.com/features/local-seo/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin 'Local SEO').\n\n* **Site Audit**\nGet a detailed report of SEO issues for all posts and terms on your site, discover why these issues are important and how you can fix them.\n\n* **SEO Revisions**\nKeep a [historical record of SEO changes](https://aioseo.com/seo-revisions/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin 'SEO Revisions'), monitor the impact of changes, and restore previous versions in one click.\n\n* **Content Decay Tracking**\nNever lose traffic to competitors. Quickly detect which content is losing traffic / SEO rankings, so you can optimize it to regain your rankings with our [Search Statistics module](https://aioseo.com/features/search-statistics/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin 'Search Statistics').\n\n* **Smart XML Sitemap**\nAdvanced XML sitemaps to boost your SEO rankings (with easy setup inside Google Search Console). Also includes Video SEO XML sitemap, News SEO XML sitemap, RSS sitemap, and HTML sitemap.\n\n* **Smart SEO Redirects**\nThe most powerful [SEO Redirection manager](https://aioseo.com/features/redirection-manager/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin 'Redirection Manager') for setting up advanced SEO redirects including 301 redirects, 302, 307, 410, 404 redirection, REGEX redirects, and more.\n\n* **404 Error Monitor**\nAutomatic 404 error monitor helps you track and redirect 404 errors, so you don't lose SEO rankings.\n\n* **Author SEO**\nAdd [custom author profile pages, author bio box, and relevant author schema](https://aioseo.com/features/author-seo-google-e-e-a-t/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin 'Author SEO (E-E-A-T)') to boost Google EEAT score to help with Google's Helpful Content Update (HCU).\n\n* **LLMs.txt Generator**\nGenerate an llms.txt file to help AI engines discover your site's content more easily so your content can rank in AI search results.\n\n* **SEO Audit Checklist**\nImprove your SEO ranking with our comprehensive SEO audit checklist.\n\n* **Knowledge Graph Support**\nImprove your website's search appearance with SEO Knowledge panel.\n\n* **Table of Contents**\nAutomatically generate a table of content, customize headings, anchors, and you can also hide or reorder the headings.\n\n### Advanced SEO Plugin Features ###\n\n* **User Access Control**\nControl who can manage your SEO settings with our advanced SEO access control.\n\n* **WordPress REST API**\nManage your SEO metadata with WordPress REST API. Great for headless WordPress installations.\n\n* **Advanced Robots Meta SEO Settings**\nGranular controls for no index, no follow, no archive, no snippet, max snippet, max video, etc.\n\n* **RSS Content for SEO**\nStop content scraping from hurting your SEO rankings.\n\n* **Full Site Redirects**\nMerging websites or switching domains? Full site redirect makes it easy to switch domains without losing SEO rankings.\n\n* **Smart Meta Title \u0026 Description**\nAutomatic SEO generation, dynamic SEO smart tags, include Emoji, add shortcodes, and more features to stand out in search results.\n\n* **Smart Breadcrumbs**\nAdd Breadcrumb navigation to improve user experience and boost your SEO rankings. Comes with full SEO JSON+LD support.\n\n* **Automatic Image SEO**\nHelps your images rank higher by autogenerating image title, clean SEO image filenames, and more.\n\n* **Advanced SEO Canonical URLs**\nPrevent duplicate content in SEO with automatic canonical URLs.\n\n* **SEO Cleanup / Manual SEO Penalty Removal**\nDomains Report feature in Link Assistant automatically removes all links for specific domains with just one click. Huge time saver when doing SEO cleanups.\n\n* **Link Opportunities Report**\nSee better internal link opportunities with our smart algorithm. Easily add internal links with just a few clicks.\n\n* **Robots.txt Editor**\nManage and customize SEO robots.txt files in WordPress.\n\n* **Crawl Quota Management**\nCrawl Cleanup feature manages your search engine crawl quota and index your important content faster.\n\n* **Title and Nofollow for SEO**\nEasily add title and nofollow to external links.\n\n* **Headline Analyzer**\nAnalyze your page / posts headlines to improve CTR and SEO rankings.\n\n* **Competitor Site SEO Analysis**\nUse competitor SEO analysis to outrank them with better SEO optimization.\n\n* **SEO Code Snippets**\nIntegration with [WPCode plugin](https://wordpress.org/plugins/insert-headers-and-footers/) for SEO code snippets to further customize every aspect of your SEO.\n\n\n### WordPress SEO Integrations ###\n\n* **Google Search Console Integration**\nConnect with Google webmaster tools and Google Search Console to see SEO insights (like content rankings, keyword rankings, page speed insights, post index status, etc) directly in your WordPress dashboard.\n\n* **WooCommerce SEO**\nImproves your WooCommerce SEO rankings. Easily optimize WooCommerce product pages, product categories, and more for best eCommerce SEO results.\n\n* **Knowledge Panel SEO**\nImprove website SEO appearance by adding social media profile links for Facebook, Twitter, Wikipedia, Instagram, LinkedIn, Yelp, YouTube, and more.\n\n* **Webmaster Tool Integrations**\nConnect with all webmaster tools including Google Search Console, Bing SEO, Yandex SEO, Baidu SEO, Google Analytics, Pinterest site verification, and more.\n\n* **Social Media Integration**\nFacebook SEO, Twitter SEO, and Pinterest SEO with better website previews.\n\n* **Google AMP SEO Integration**\nImprove your mobile SEO rankings with Google AMP SEO.\n\n* **Semrush SEO integration**\nSee additional SEO keywords with Semrush SEO integration.\n\n* **Microsoft Clarity Integration**\nSee visitor interactions with heatmaps and session recordings.\n\n* **IndexNow Integration**\nInstantly notify Bing and Yandex for faster SEO indexing.\n\n* **Elementor SEO**\nBetter Elementor SEO for landing pages.\n\n* **Divi SEO**\nBetter Divi SEO for landing pages.\n\n* **Avada SEO**\nBetter Avada SEO for landing pages.\n\n* **WP Bakery SEO**\nBetter WP Bakery SEO for landing pages.\n\n* **SeedProd SEO**\nOptimize SeedProd landing pages for SEO.\n\n* **SiteOrigin SEO**\nBetter SiteOrigin SEO for landing pages.\n\n* **Open Graph Support**\nImprove SEO rankings with open graph meta data.\n\n### WordPress SEO Plugin Importer ###\n\nNot happy with your current SEO plugin? We make SEO migration easy with our point-and-click automated SEO data transfer tool. We currently support SEO migration from following SEO tools:\n\n* Yoast SEO Importer\n* Yoast SEO Premium Importer\n* RankMath SEO Importer\n* SEOPress\n\nWe also support importing SEO redirects from the following plugins:\n\n* Redirection Plugin\n* Simple 301 Redirects Importer\n* Safe Redirect Manager\n* 301 Redirects Importer\n\nAside from that, our SEO migration tool also helps you with:\n\n* Import / Export AIOSEO settings from one site to another\n* Create SEO Settings Backup\n* CSV Sitemap Import to Import additional pages to your XML Sitemaps\n\n\n**Now you can see why AIOSEO is often rated the best SEO plugin in WordPress.**\n\nGive AIOSEO a try.\n\nWant to unlock more SEO features? [Upgrade to AIOSEO Pro](https://aioseo.com/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin 'All in One SEO for WordPress').\n\n### Credits ###\n\nThis plugin is created by [Benjamin Rojas](https://benjaminrojas.net/ 'Benjamin Rojas') and [Syed Balkhi](https://syedbalkhi.com/ 'Syed Balkhi').\n\n### Branding Guideline ###\n\nAIOSEO\u0026reg; is a registered trademark of Semper Plugins LLC. When writing about the WordPress SEO plugin by AIOSEO, please use the following format.\n\n* AIOSEO (correct)\n* All in One SEO (correct)\n* AIO SEO (incorrect)\n* All in 1 SEO (incorrect)\n* AISEO (incorrect)\n\n== Changelog ==\n\n**New in Version 4.8.7**\n\n* Updated: Hardened API routes to prevent unauthorized access.\n* Updated: Added support for tracking breadcrumb setting changes in SEO Revisions.\n* Updated: Added support for WooCommerce GTIN field to Product schema.\n* Updated: Added support for .avif images to Image Sitemap and Image SEO addon.\n* Updated: Review limit for Product schema can now be modified via a new filter hook.\n* Updated: Use site URL instead of home URL for llms.txt to handle WP installs in subdirectories.\n* Updated: Remove all user meta when AIOSEO is uninstalled.\n* Updated: Improved performance of Cornerstone Content filtering.\n* Fixed: Product shipping details schema clearing cart content in rare case where logged-in user adds a product to the cart and then edits a product in the admin panel.\n* Fixed: ProfilePage schema sometimes invalid due to incorrect author URL.\n* Fixed: Hide AIOSEO custom link fields inside the Edit Link modal in WPBakery visual builder to prevent plugin conflict.\n* Fixed: AIOSEO Settings not successfully saving before post is published in WPBakery visual builder.\n* Fixed: The SEO title and description were not persisting if the post content is too large.\n* Fixed: Theme conflict with Neve where the EDD Checkout block does not show if Run Shortcodes is enabled.\n* Fixed: Breadcrumb block not updating when changing the post title.\n* Fixed: If WooCommerce brand is selected as primary category, it is now correctly used in the URL.\n* Fixed: Headline Analyzer layout breaks when entering very long headlines.\n\n**New in Version 4.8.6.1**\n\n* Updated: Prevent potential plugin conflicts due to the loading of dependencies multiple times.\n* Updated: Local SEO render options for Opening Hours are now hidden when feature is disabled.\n* Fixed: Loading spinner for SEO Revisions in sidebar menu not aligned.\n\n**New in Version 4.8.6**\n\n* New: Site Audit - Get a detailed report of SEO issues for all posts and terms on your site, discover why these issues are important and how you can fix them. 🔨\n* Fixed: Multisite subsite requests to Search Statistics server sometimes fail due to missing license.\n* Fixed: Rare PHP error when breadcrumbs cannot be determined for non-standard pages.\n\n**New in Version 4.8.5**\n\n* Updated: Author SEO (E-E-A-T) addon and Writing Assistant data are now fully removed when uninstalling the plugin.\n* Updated: Product Schema now favours WooCommerce brand field over its own custom field.\n* Updated: PHP version notices are now only shown to Administrators.\n* Fixed: Breadcrumbs taxonomy preview now correctly refreshes when user toggles between using the default settings\n* Fixed: WooCommerce Brand smart tag not correctly converted to expected value in previews.\n* Fixed: AIOSEO Details column now correctly reloads after quick-editing a post.\n* Fixed: Image URLs are no longer forcefully converted to lowercase in the Image Sitemap.\n* Fixed: Focus Keyword now saves correctly again for Divi built posts.\n* Fixed: Image SEO no longer breaks Divi built posts in rare cases.\n* Fixed: Multisite subsites no longer incorrectly inherit the \"Block AI Crawlers\" and \"Block Crawling of Internal Site Search URLs\" setting values from the main site in the network. \n* Fixed: Notifications no longer contain encoded HTML entities\n* Fixed: Default options for new redirects not localized.\n* Fixed: PHP error in rare cases when breadcrumb link is a WP_Error.\n* Fixed: PHP error due to plugin conflict with MasterStudy LMS.\n\n**New in Version 4.8.4.1**\n\n* Fixed: PHP error for multisites when AI credits don't manage to update correctly.\n\n**New in Version 4.8.4**\n\n* New: AI Content - Use our new smart AI features to automatically generate FAQs, Key Points, social media posts and more, that perfectly fit your articles. 🤖\n* New: LLMs.txt File - The new llms.txt file helps AI engines discover your site's content more easily so your content can rank in AI search results.\n* Updated: Index Status Report now fetches index data from Google on-the-fly when it is missing or expired.\n* Fixed: Image SEO addon no longer incorrectly encodes HTML in captions.\n* Fixed: PHP notice when trying to format price of products in Product schema where no price is set.\n* Fixed: Added back missing $crumb param to aioseo_breadcrumbs_template filter hook for compatibility.\n\n**New in Version 4.8.3.2**\n\n* Updated: Defined purpose of SEO title and meta description so WPML can adhere to character limits when auto-translating these fields.\n* Fixed: Breadcrumbs schema error when homepage crumb link is disabled under Breadcrumb settings.\n\n**New in Version 4.8.3.1**\n\n* New: Custom Breadcrumb Trails – Create custom breadcrumb trails for all your posts and terms to granularly control how they are displayed.\n* New: Added multilingual sitemap support for Weglot.\n* Updated: Breadcrumb schema markup is now directly tied to your visual breadcrumb trail.\n* Updated: Deprecated Bad Bot Blocker feature has now been fully removed from the plugin.\n* Updated: Image Sitemap now stores locally hosted images as relative URLs in order to facilitate seamless site migrations.\n* Updated: AIOSEO autoloaded option no longer stores SEO Analyzer results in order to improve performance.\n* Updated: Improved performance by no longer storing Writing Assistant's country and language data in user metadata.\n* Updated: Minor performance improvements for General, HTML, and RSS sitemaps by removing unnecessary fields from database queries.\n* Updated: Added additional caching to prevent sites from sending redundant concurrent requests to AIOSEO servers to check for new updates.\n* Updated: Added support to TruSEO for Elementor's Optimized DOM feature.\n* Updated: Added support to import post/term level redirects from the Rank Math SEO plugin.\n* Updated: Added support for Bluesky and Threads to Social Networks settings.\n* Updated: Unified the “Last Modified Date” checkbox design across WooCommerce Products and Classic Editor posts.\n* Updated: Improved UX for the AIOSEO Overview widget by showing TruSEO scores for all posts, regardless of whether they have a Focus Keyword.\n* Updated: “Keyword in URL” TruSEO check is now disabled when WordPress permalinks are not enabled.\n* Updated: Improved sitemap validation to only allow “inherit” post status for attachments.\n* Fixed: Dynamic backup for temporarily deregistered post types and taxonomies now works correctly again.\n* Fixed: Add redirects bulk action within the 404 Logs tab now works correctly again.\n* Fixed: Cache issue in multisite when sub-site is not network activated.\n* Fixed: Additional Pages sitemap index no longer shows the image column.\n* Fixed: SEO revision now shows the correct name for taxonomies other than category.\n* Fixed: AIOSEO popup overlap in Divi.\n* Fixed: News Sitemap title now outputs encoded versions of special characters (\u0026, \u003e, \u003c, ‘, etc.).\n* Fixed: When deleting the modified date for an additional sitemap record, it now shows as empty instead of invalid.\n* Fixed: Sitemap would sometimes throw an error if another plugin/theme added content to the output, causing it to be parsed incorrectly.\n* Fixed: TruSEO would sometimes not be able to read Elementor's post content.\n* Fixed: Tumblr URL format in the social meta and schema markup are now always the same.\n* Fixed: Book schema markup now correctly outputs the book format.\n* Fixed: Fact Check schema now correctly outputs the claim author.\n* Fixed: Google Rich Results Test link now appears again in the toolbar menu.\n* Fixed: URL input validation no longer shows an error for empty values.\n* Fixed: Improved Link Assistant's ability to handle large amounts of text by increasing the text size limit for paragraphs and optimizing how text content is processed.\n* Fixed: SEO settings now properly update when switching between pages in the Elementor editor.\n* Fixed: SEO Title and Meta Description compatibility with Astra Pro Site Builder and SureForms plugins.\n* Fixed: Link Assistant Inner post report would sometimes fail to refresh.\n* Fixed: Compatibility with LearnDash Notifications while using Redirect's Advanced 404 feature.\n* Fixed: Resolved duplicate DB queries when loading notifications for the Notification Center.\n* Fixed: URLs in the sitemap are now properly encoded for non-English languages when using WPML.\n* Fixed: TruSEO settings not being updated depending on the content.\n* Fixed: PHP deprecation warning for PHP 8.4 in Action Scheduler.\n* Fixed: PHP warning for taxonomy sitemap indexes.\n* Fixed: PHP warning when using Divi and custom schema markup.\n* Fixed: PHP notice in Author SEO (E-E-A-T) addon due to translations loaded too early.\n* Fixed: SEO Site Score widget sometimes not displaying results.\n\n**See our [changelog on aioseo.com](https://aioseo.com/changelog/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=aioseo) for previous releases.**\n\n== Frequently Asked Questions ==\n\nPlease visit our [complete AIOSEO documentation](https://aioseo.com/docs/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin) before requesting support for SEO from the AIOSEO team.\n\n= Who should use AIOSEO? =\n\nSEO is essential for all websites. AIOSEO is perfect for business owners, bloggers, marketers, designers, developers, photographers, and basically everyone else. If you want to rank higher in search, then you need to use AIOSEO WordPress SEO plugin.\n\n= Which themes does AIOSEO support? =\n\nAIOSEO works with all WordPress themes. Simply enable AIOSEO to make your WordPress theme SEO friendly.\n\n= Will AIOSEO slow down my website? =\n\nNope, AIOSEO will NOT slow down your website. We understand that speed is important for SEO, that's why our code is properly optimized for maximum performance. Remember, faster websites rank higher in search. Use AIOSEO for fast SEO improvements.\n\n= Can I use AIOSEO on client sites? =\n\nYes, you can use AIOSEO on client websites.\n\n= Are AIOSEO sitemaps better than default WordPress sitemaps? =\n\nYes, AIOSEO smart sitemaps are a lot more optimized than the default WordPress sitemaps. Once you enable AIOSEO, our XML sitemaps will override the default WordPress sitemaps, so you can improve your SEO rankings.\n\nWe also offer advanced SEO sitemaps such as News Sitemap, Video Sitemap, and RSS Sitemap.\n\nOur SEO sitemaps come with granular control such as links per sitemap, enable / disable post types or taxonomies, include / exclude specific links from sitemap, add additional non-WordPress pages to sitemaps, customize sitemap priority \u0026 frequency for each section of your site, and more.\n\nThis is why experts rate AIOSEO as the best WordPress SEO plugin.\n\n= Does AIOSEO help with SEO Verification? =\n\nYes. AIOSEO can help you with website SEO verification with various webmaster tools such as Google Search Console, Bing Webmaster Tools, Yandex, Baidu, Pinterest, and just about every other site verification you need.\n\n= Why is AIOSEO better than other SEO plugins? =\n\nThere are many WordPress SEO plugins out there. Unlike others, AIOSEO WordPress SEO plugin is always reliable. Our SEO features are results focused (no bloat), and we offer exceptional customer support.\n\nAIOSEO is the original WordPress SEO plugin, and it's trusted by over 3 million website owners.\n\n= Do I really need an XML Sitemap? =\n\n**Yes! XML Sitemaps help Google and other search engines to find all the pages of your website.**\n\nAn XML sitemap is a list of all the content on your website. The sitemap helps search engine bots to easily see all the content on your site in one place, The XML sitemap file is hidden from your human visitors, however search engines like Google can see it.\n\nWithout an XML sitemap, some of your web pages may never be included in Google search results, and won't get any traffic.\n\nXML Sitemaps also help you tell Google which pages you DON'T want included in search results. This can help your SEO to prevent keyword cannibalization and duplicate content issues.\n\nAs part of your SEO strategy, **an XML sitemap can help you to improve your domain authority and unlock more traffic from Google, Bing and other search engines**.\n\nAIOSEO can easily help you get your sitemaps listed inside Google Search Console so your content can start to get indexed today!\n\n= Does AIOSEO integrate directly with Google Search Console? =\n\nAbsolutely! Our integration with Google Search Console allows you to monitor and maintain your website's presence on Google. With our direct integration, you can easily view important information about your website, such as the number of clicks, impressions, and the average position for each keyword that your website's content appears for in Google search results. You can also track your contents page speed using Google's Page Speed Insights directly inside your WordPress dashboard.\n\nAdditionally, AIOSEO can also provide you with data on the most frequently used keywords, the most popular pages on your website, and any crawl errors or security issues that may arise. By integrating with Google Search Console, AIOSEO provides website owners with valuable insights that can help to improve SEO and overall online visibility. With this integration, you can track your site's progress over time and make data-driven decisions that will help you achieve your SEO goals.\n\n== Screenshots ==\n\n1. SEO Content Analyzer (Gutenberg)\n2. SEO Content Analyzer (Classic Editor)\n3. SEO Setup Wizard\n4. SEO Site Analysis\n5. Webmaster Tools Connect\n6. Social Media Integrations\n7. Local SEO\n8. Sitemaps\n9. Search Appearance Settings\n10. Robots.txt Editor\n11. RSS Content Control\n12. Headline Analyzer\n13. Redirect Manager\n14. Link Assistant\n\n== Upgrade Notice ==\n\n= 4.8.7 =\n\nThis update adds major improvements and bug fixes.","meta":{"last_version":"4.8.5"},"ip":"107.180.250.162","timestamp":"2025-09-09T15:51:31.127557+05:30","curl-command":"curl -X 'GET' -d '' -H 'Accept: */*' -H 'Accept-Language: en' -H 'User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Mac OS X 13_2) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Edge/113.0 Safari/537.36' 'https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/all-in-one-seo-pack/readme.txt'","matcher-status":true}
{"template":"http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/contact-form-7.yaml","template-url":"https://cloud.projectdiscovery.io/public/wordpress-contact-form-7","template-id":"wordpress-contact-form-7","template-path":"/Users/ayushi/nuclei-templates/http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/contact-form-7.yaml","info":{"name":"Contact Form 7 Detection","author":["ricardomaia"],"tags":["tech","wordpress","wp-plugin","top-100","top-200"],"reference":["https://wordpress.org/plugins/contact-form-7/"],"severity":"info","metadata":{"plugin_namespace":"contact-form-7","wpscan":"https://wpscan.com/plugin/contact-form-7"}},"extractor-name":"detected_version","type":"http","host":"hypertrends.com","port":"443","scheme":"https","url":"https://hypertrends.com","matched-at":"https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/contact-form-7/readme.txt","extracted-results":["6.1.1"],"request":"GET /wp-content/plugins/contact-form-7/readme.txt HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: hypertrends.com\r\nUser-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 14_3) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/17.2 Safari/605.1.15\r\nAccept: */*\r\nAccept-Language: en\r\nAccept-Encoding: gzip\r\n\r\n","response":"HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r\nConnection: close\r\nTransfer-Encoding: chunked\r\nContent-Security-Policy: default-src * 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval' data: blob:;\r\nContent-Type: text/plain\r\nDate: Tue, 09 Sep 2025 10:21:37 GMT\r\nEtag: W/\"6892ecf6-109d\"\r\nLast-Modified: Wed, 06 Aug 2025 05:49:42 GMT\r\nReferrer-Policy: no-referrer-when-downgrade\r\nServer: nginx\r\nStrict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000;\r\nVary: Accept-Encoding\r\nX-Content-Type-Options: nosniff\r\nX-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN\r\nX-Rocket-Nginx-Serving-Static: MISS\r\nX-Xss-Protection: 1; mode=block\r\n\r\n=== Contact Form 7 ===\r\nContributors: takayukister\r\nDonate link: https://contactform7.com/donate/\r\nTags: contact form, schema-woven validation\r\nTested up to: 6.8\r\nRequires at least: 6.7\r\nRequires PHP: 7.4\r\nStable tag: 6.1.1\r\nLicense: GPLv2 or later\r\nLicense URI: https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html\r\n\r\nJust another contact form plugin. Simple but flexible.\r\n\r\n== Description ==\r\n\r\nContact Form 7 is a plugin designed to be a practical tool for all WordPress users who embrace the philosophy of free and open source software. It employs sophisticatedly modularized architecture and its original [Schema-Woven Validation](https://contactform7.com/schema-woven-validation/) technology.\r\n\r\n= Docs and support =\r\n\r\nYou can find [docs](https://contactform7.com/docs/), [FAQ](https://contactform7.com/faq/) and more detailed information about Contact Form 7 on [contactform7.com](https://contactform7.com/). When you cannot find the answer to your question on the FAQ or in any of the documentation, check the [support forum](https://wordpress.org/support/plugin/contact-form-7/) on WordPress.org. If you cannot locate any topics that pertain to your particular issue, post a new topic for it.\r\n\r\n= Contact Form 7 needs your support =\r\n\r\nIt is hard to continue to maintain this plugin without support from users like you. There are several ways for you to [contribute to the project](https://contactform7.com/contributing/): testing, coding, translating it into your local languages, helping other users, financial donations, etc, etc. We equally welcome you regardless of the way you contribute.\r\n\r\n= Privacy notices =\r\n\r\nWith the default configuration, this plugin, in itself, does not:\r\n\r\n* track users by stealth;\r\n* write any user personal data to the database;\r\n* send any data to external servers;\r\n* use cookies.\r\n\r\nIf you activate certain features in this plugin, the contact form submitter's personal data, including their IP address, may be sent to the service provider. Thus, confirming the provider's privacy policy is recommended. These features include:\r\n\r\n* reCAPTCHA ([Google](https://policies.google.com/?hl=en))\r\n* Akismet ([Automattic](https://automattic.com/privacy/))\r\n* [Constant Contact](https://www.constantcontact.com/legal/privacy-center)\r\n* [Brevo](https://www.brevo.com/legal/privacypolicy/)\r\n* [Stripe](https://stripe.com/privacy)\r\n* Turnstile ([Cloudflare](https://www.cloudflare.com/turnstile-privacy-policy/))\r\n\r\n== Installation ==\r\n\r\n1. Upload the entire `contact-form-7` folder to the `/wp-content/plugins/` directory.\r\n1. Activate the plugin through the **Plugins** screen (**Plugins \u003e Installed Plugins**).\r\n\r\nYou will find **Contact** menu in your WordPress admin screen.\r\n\r\nFor basic usage, have a look at the [plugin's website](https://contactform7.com/).\r\n\r\n== Frequently Asked Questions ==\r\n\r\nDo you have questions or issues with Contact Form 7? Use these support channels appropriately.\r\n\r\n1. [Docs](https://contactform7.com/docs/)\r\n1. [FAQ](https://contactform7.com/faq/)\r\n1. [Support forum](https://wordpress.org/support/plugin/contact-form-7/)\r\n\r\n[Support](https://contactform7.com/support/)\r\n\r\n== Screenshots ==\r\n\r\n1. screenshot-1.png\r\n\r\n== Changelog ==\r\n\r\nFor more information, see [Releases](https://contactform7.com/category/releases/).\r\n\r\n= 6.1.1 =\r\n\r\n[https://contactform7.com/contact-form-7-611/](https://contactform7.com/contact-form-7-611/)\r\n\r\n= 6.1 =\r\n\r\n[https://contactform7.com/contact-form-7-61/](https://contactform7.com/contact-form-7-61/)\r\n\r\n= 6.0.5 =\r\n\r\n[https://contactform7.com/contact-form-7-605/](https://contactform7.com/contact-form-7-605/)\r\n\r\n= 6.0.4 =\r\n\r\n[https://contactform7.com/contact-form-7-604/](https://contactform7.com/contact-form-7-604/)\r\n\r\n= 6.0.3 =\r\n\r\n* Updates the copyright year to 2025.\r\n* Updates the \"Contact Form 7 needs your support\" message content.\r\n* Updates the Constant Contact deprecation warning.\r\n\r\n= 6.0.2 =\r\n\r\n* Removes unnecessary type declaration from nullable arguments to avoid deprecation warnings in PHP 8.4.\r\n\r\n= 6.0.1 =\r\n\r\n[https://contactform7.com/contact-form-7-601/](https://contactform7.com/contact-form-7-601/)\r\n\r\n= 6.0 =\r\n\r\n[https://contactform7.com/contact-form-7-60/](https://contactform7.com/contact-form-7-60/)\r\n\r\n== Upgrade Notice ==\r\n","meta":{"last_version":"6.1"},"ip":"107.180.250.162","timestamp":"2025-09-09T15:51:38.386053+05:30","curl-command":"curl -X 'GET' -d '' -H 'Accept: */*' -H 'Accept-Language: en' -H 'User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 14_3) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/17.2 Safari/605.1.15' 'https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/contact-form-7/readme.txt'","matcher-status":true}
{"template":"http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/duplicate-page.yaml","template-url":"https://cloud.projectdiscovery.io/public/wordpress-duplicate-page","template-id":"wordpress-duplicate-page","template-path":"/Users/ayushi/nuclei-templates/http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/duplicate-page.yaml","info":{"name":"Duplicate Page Detection","author":["ricardomaia"],"tags":["tech","wordpress","wp-plugin","top-100","top-200"],"reference":["https://wordpress.org/plugins/duplicate-page/"],"severity":"info","metadata":{"plugin_namespace":"duplicate-page","wpscan":"https://wpscan.com/plugin/duplicate-page"}},"extractor-name":"detected_version","type":"http","host":"hypertrends.com","port":"443","scheme":"https","url":"https://hypertrends.com","matched-at":"https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/duplicate-page/readme.txt","extracted-results":["4.5.5"],"request":"GET /wp-content/plugins/duplicate-page/readme.txt HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: hypertrends.com\r\nUser-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_15_4) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/9.1.2 Safari/605.1.15\r\nAccept: */*\r\nAccept-Language: en\r\nAccept-Encoding: gzip\r\n\r\n","response":"HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r\nConnection: close\r\nTransfer-Encoding: chunked\r\nContent-Security-Policy: default-src * 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval' data: blob:;\r\nContent-Type: text/plain\r\nDate: Tue, 09 Sep 2025 10:21:40 GMT\r\nEtag: W/\"68919869-1658\"\r\nLast-Modified: Tue, 05 Aug 2025 05:36:41 GMT\r\nReferrer-Policy: no-referrer-when-downgrade\r\nServer: nginx\r\nStrict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000;\r\nVary: Accept-Encoding\r\nX-Content-Type-Options: nosniff\r\nX-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN\r\nX-Rocket-Nginx-Serving-Static: MISS\r\nX-Xss-Protection: 1; mode=block\r\n\r\n=== Duplicate Page ===\nContributors: mndpsingh287\nTags: Page Duplicate, Post duplicate, duplicate custom posts, duplicate page, duplicate post, duplicate ,custom posts, post, page, duplicate this, duplicate, content duplicate, duplicate content, data duplicate, duplicate data, copy page, clone page,wordpress page duplicate, wordpress post duplicate, Copy post, wordpress page duplicator, wordpress post duplicator, Cloner, duplicate post\nRequires at least: 3.4\nTested up to: 6.8.1\nStable tag: 4.5.5\nLicense: GPLv2 or later\nLicense URI: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html\n\nDuplicate Posts, Pages and Custom Posts easily using single click\n\n== Description ==\n\nDuplicate Posts, Pages and Custom Posts easily using single click. You can duplicate your pages, posts and custom post by just one click and it will save as your selected options (draft, private, public, pending).\n\n= Key Features in Duplicate Page Pro Editions =\n\n* **User Roles:** Allow User Roles To access Duplicate Page.\n* **Post Types:** Filter to show Duplicate Page link in post types.\n* **Clone Link Location:** Option where to show clone link.\n* **Status:** Option to select Duplicate Posts Status.\n* **Redirection:** Option to Redirect after click on clone link..\n* **Clone Link Title:** Option to change Duplicate Post Link Title.\n* **Post Prefix:** Option to add Post Prefix.\n* **Post Suffix:** Option to add Post Suffix.\n* **Editor**: And Many More Filters and Features.\n\n\u003e \u003cstrong\u003e[Buy Pro Version](https://duplicatepro.com/pro/?utm_source=Wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=Website\u0026utm_campaign=Duplicate%20Page%20Pro)\u003c/strong\u003e with various features \u0026 support.\n\n\u003e \u003cstrong\u003e[Contact us](https://duplicatepro.com/contact/?utm_source=Wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=Website\u0026utm_campaign=Duplicate%20Page%20Pro)\u003c/strong\u003e for Support Only Pro Version Users.\n\n**[Upgrade to Pro Version](https://duplicatepro.com/pro/?utm_source=Wordpress.org\u0026utm_medium=Website\u0026utm_campaign=Duplicate%20Page%20Pro)**\n\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Fj8BHxvebXs\u0026feature=youtu.be\n\n== Installation ==\n\n1. Upload the `duplicate-page` folder to the directory `/wp-content/plugins/`.\n2. Activate the plugin using the 'Plugins' menu in WordPress.\n\n== Frequently asked questions ==\n\n## How to use\n\n1. First Activate Plugin.\n2. Go Select to Duplicate Page settings Menu from Settings Tab and savings settings. \n1. Then Create New Post/Page or Use old.\n2. After click on duplicate this link, then duplicate post/ page will be created and saved as draft,publish,pending,private depending upon settings.\n\n== Screenshots ==\n\n1. Activate Screen \n2. Duplicate Page Settings Screen\n3. Select Option from Settings Page.\n4. Click on Duplicate This. \n5. Duplicate Post / Page will Appear. \n\n== Changelog ==\n\n= 4.5.5 (9th June, 2025) =\n* Compatible with WordPress 6.8.1\n\n\n= 4.5.4 (29th July, 2024) =\n* Compatible with WordPress 6.6.1\n\n= 4.5.3(11th Sept, 2023)\n\n* Compatible with wordpress 6.3.1\n\n= 4.5.2(4th May, 2023)\n\n* Compatible with wordpress 6.2\n\n= 4.5.1(8th Feb, 2023)\n\n* Fixes compatibility issues with event calendar plugin.\n* Minor bug fixes\n\n= 4.5(14th Dec, 2022)\n\n* Checked compatibility with wordpress v6.1.1 \n* Fixes elementor sections compatibility issue\n\n= 4.4.9(15th Jul, 2022)\n\n* Checked compatibility with wordpress v6.0.1\n\n= 4.4.8(27th Jan, 2022)\n\n* Checked compatibility with wordpress v5.9\n\n= 4.4.7(16th Dec, 2021)\n\n* Added editor role check\n\n= 4.4.6(7th Dec, 2021)\n\n* Fixed security issues.\n\n= 4.4.5(29th Sep, 2021)\n\n* Fixed the issue for content HTML displaying in the sidebar.\n\n= 4.4.4(16th Sep, 2021)\n\n* Fixed sanitization Issues as per wordpress standards.\n\n= 4.4.3(8th Sep, 2021)\n\n* Updated code sanitization process for secure data submission\n\n= 4.4.2(6th Sep, 2021)\n\n* Added sanitization as per wordpress standards.\n\n= 4.4.1(27th July, 2021) =\n\n* Checked compatibility with wordpress v5.8\n* Fixed php warnings\n\n= 4.4(18th Mar, 2021) =\n\n* Tested upto wordpress v5.7\n\n= 4.3(28th Aug, 2020) =\n\n* Tested with wordpress v5.5\n\n= 4.2(26th March, 2020) =\n\n* Fixed Translations string issue\n\n= 4.1(20th Feb, 2020) =\n\n* Fixed Translations issue\n\n= 4.0(20th Sep, 2019) =\n\n* Fixed slug duplication issue\n\n= 3.9 (6th Aug, 2019) =\n\n* Fixed some compatibility issues\n\n= 3.8 (18th July, 2019) =\n\n* Fixed compatibility issues with GT3 editor\n\n= 3.7 (18th July, 2019) =\n\n* Fixed compatibility issues with other editors\n\n= 3.6 (16th July, 2019) =\n\n* Security fixes addressed by wordpress\n\n= 3.5 (2nd Apr, 2019) =\n\n* Gutenberg and advanced custom fields compatibility \n\n= 3.4 (1st Apr, 2019) =\n\n* Security issues fixes addressed by Securi\n\n= 3.3 (14th March, 2019) =\n\n* Compatible with WordPress 5.1.1\n\n= 3.2 (25th Dec, 2018) =\n\n* Gutenberg Compatible\n\n= 3.1 (5th Dec, 2018) =\n\n* removed nag\n\n= 3.0 (3rd Dec, 2018) =\n\n* German Formal lang added\n\n= 2.9 (16th Nov, 2018) =\n\n* Minor bug fixes\n\n= 2.8 (20th Oct, 2018) =\n\n* Compatible with php 7.3 and wordpress 5.0\n\n= 2.7 (28th July, 2018) =\n\n* removed useless adsense code\n\n= 2.6 (24th March, 2018) =\n\n* Added signup popup and minor fixes.\n\n= 2.5 (5th Feb, 2018) =\n\n* Translations issue resolve.\n\n= 2.4 (29th Nov, 2017) =\n\n* Duplicate Page appends original post name issue fixed.\n\n= 2.3 (27st april, 2017) =\n\n* Minor Fixes\n\n= 2.2 (28th Jan, 2017) =\n\n* Strings Translations\n\n= 2.1 (25th Aug, 2016) =\n\n* New Text field added in settings page for duplicate post title suffix to remove confusion of currently duplicate page.\n\n= 1.4 (18th Jun, 2016) =\n\n* New Features added\n\n= 1.3 (23th May, 2016) =\n\n* New Features added\n\n= 1.2 (05th May, 2016) =\n\n* Duplicate Page Settings Menu Added.\n\n= 1.1 (04th May ,2016) =\n\n* fix some Bug in 1.0\n\n== Other Notes ==\n\n== Minimum requirements for Duplicate Page ==\n*   Wordpress 3.3+\n*   PHP 5.x\n*   MySQL 5.x\n","meta":{"last_version":"4.5.5"},"ip":"107.180.250.162","timestamp":"2025-09-09T15:51:40.373549+05:30","curl-command":"curl -X 'GET' -d '' -H 'Accept: */*' -H 'Accept-Language: en' -H 'User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_15_4) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/9.1.2 Safari/605.1.15' 'https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/duplicate-page/readme.txt'","matcher-status":true}
{"template":"http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/google-analytics-dashboard-for-wp.yaml","template-url":"https://cloud.projectdiscovery.io/public/wordpress-google-analytics-dashboard-for-wp","template-id":"wordpress-google-analytics-dashboard-for-wp","template-path":"/Users/ayushi/nuclei-templates/http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/google-analytics-dashboard-for-wp.yaml","info":{"name":"ExactMetrics – Google Analytics Dashboard for WordPress (Website Stats Plugin) Detection","author":["ricardomaia"],"tags":["tech","wordpress","wp-plugin","top-200"],"reference":["https://wordpress.org/plugins/google-analytics-dashboard-for-wp/"],"severity":"info","metadata":{"wpscan":"https://wpscan.com/plugin/google-analytics-dashboard-for-wp","plugin_namespace":"google-analytics-dashboard-for-wp"}},"extractor-name":"detected_version","type":"http","host":"hypertrends.com","port":"443","scheme":"https","url":"https://hypertrends.com","matched-at":"https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/google-analytics-dashboard-for-wp/readme.txt","extracted-results":["8.7.4"],"request":"GET /wp-content/plugins/google-analytics-dashboard-for-wp/readme.txt HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: hypertrends.com\r\nUser-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_15_7) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/15.0 Safari/605.1.15\r\nAccept: */*\r\nAccept-Language: en\r\nAccept-Encoding: gzip\r\n\r\n","response":"HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r\nConnection: close\r\nTransfer-Encoding: chunked\r\nContent-Security-Policy: default-src * 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval' data: blob:;\r\nContent-Type: text/plain\r\nDate: Tue, 09 Sep 2025 10:21:43 GMT\r\nEtag: W/\"689d9432-5085\"\r\nLast-Modified: Thu, 14 Aug 2025 07:45:54 GMT\r\nReferrer-Policy: no-referrer-when-downgrade\r\nServer: nginx\r\nStrict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000;\r\nVary: Accept-Encoding\r\nX-Content-Type-Options: nosniff\r\nX-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN\r\nX-Rocket-Nginx-Serving-Static: MISS\r\nX-Xss-Protection: 1; mode=block\r\n\r\n﻿=== ExactMetrics - Google Analytics Dashboard for WordPress (Website Stats Plugin) ===\nContributors: chriscct7, smub\nDonate link: http://www.wpbeginner.com/wpbeginner-needs-your-help/\nTags: analytics,google analytics,google analytics dashboard,google analytics plugin,website stats\nRequires at least: 5.6.0\nTested up to: 6.8.1\nStable tag: 8.7.4\nRequires PHP: 7.2\nLicense: GPL v3\n\nConnects Google Analytics with your WordPress site. Displays stats to help you understand your users and site content on a whole new level!\n\n== Description ==\nThe [ExactMetrics](https://exactmetrics.com?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteversion) Google Analytics for WordPress plugin helps you properly setup all the powerful Google Analytics tracking features without writing any code or hiring a developer.\n\nMore importantly, over 1 million users love ExactMetrics because of our signature Google Analytics Dashboard that helps you view key Google Analytics stats right inside your WordPress dashboard.\n\nOur goal at ExactMetrics is to help you grow your business faster with data-driven decisions.\n\nThis is why we built the most comprehensive Google Analytics plugin for WordPress, so you can setup all the powerful tracking features that website owners otherwise miss out on when simply pasting the analytics code in WordPress.\n\nWe go beyond the simple google analytics script and add the advanced event tracking, so you can see all important user behavior in WordPress with just a few clicks (without hiring a developer).\n\nExactMetrics works automatically Google Analytics 4 (GA4) so that you can your website can be prepared for the future of Google Analytics.\n\nBasically, we made the same advanced Google analytics setup that big enterprise companies used to pay thousands of dollars for, available to every small business owner without the high costs.\n\nThis is why even the large companies like Microsoft, Quickbooks, Pizza Hut, Delta, Pepsi, Coldwell Bankers, and many others are using ExactMetrics to properly setup Google Analytics and see the custom analytics reports in WordPress.\n\n\u003e \u003cstrong\u003eExactMetrics Pro\u003c/strong\u003e\u003cbr /\u003e\n\u003e This plugin is the lite version of ExactMetrics Pro plugin that comes with all the Google analytics tracking features you will ever need including events tracking, ecommerce tracking, custom dimensions tracking, form conversion tracking, affiliate link tracking, and tons more. [click here to purchase the best premium Google Analytics plugin for WordPress Now!](https://exactmetrics.com/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteversion). \nWe are on a mission to level the playing field for small businesses, so they can grow their business faster with data-driven decisions.\n\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4GZ-IgZssao\n\nSee what one business owner is saying about ExactMetrics:\n\n\u003e This is absolutely, positively, one of the TOP plugins to install on your WP site. There is no better way to quickly gauge traffic for spikes, surges, and consistency. I installed this on over a dozen WordPress installations and counting, thank you for an outstanding app!\u003cbr\u003e\n\u003e Daniel Monaghan\n\n= Custom Google Analytics Reports =\n\n* Overview Report - See the most important Google Analytics data in an easy to understand report, right inside your WordPress dashboard (Save 5 minutes each day).\n* Publisher Report - See exactly which content gets the most visit, which affiliate links are performing the best, what new partnership opportunities you should pursue, and more.\n* Ecommerce Report - See all your important online store metrics in one place such as total revenue, conversion rate, average order value, top products, top conversion sources, and more.\n* Search Console Report - See how well your website is ranking in Google, so you can optimize your SEO to grow your traffic.\n* Forms Report - See your conversion stats for various contact forms and lead forms on your website to improve conversions.\n* Custom Dimensions Report - See useful stats like most popular authors, best publication times, popular categories, tags, Yoast focus keywords, SEO score, etc.\n* Real Time Report - see who is online on your website in real-time, right inside your WordPress dashboard.\n* Customizable Google Analytics Dashboard Widget - Our dashboard widget allows you to have quick access to your most important stats at the moment you login to your WordPress dashboard.\n* Page Insights in Admin Bar - Easily view analytics for each individual page and post from the ExactMetrics menu in WordPress admin bar while browsing your website.\n* Landing Page Report - Shows you which pages your visitors land, without needing to log into Google Analytics.\n* Source and Medium Report - gives you an easy view of Google Analytics UTM tracking.\n* Technology Report - See which devices and browsers use your website the most.\n* Campaign Report - Shows you Google Analytics UTM tracking and key metrics.\n* Pages Report - See which pages are most poplular on your website.\n* Coupon Report - See which coupons are used most on your website.\n* Funnel Report - See how people buy from your store.\n* Email Summaries - Get the most important metrics delivered to you and/or your client's email inboxes weekly with our brandable Email Summaries, allowing you to keep up to date on your website's Google Analytics results even without needing to login to the Google Analytics dashboard.\n* PDF Exports - Easily take your ExactMetrics reports with you or send them to clients or colleagues by exporting all ExactMetrics reports as a brandable PDF.\n* Site Speed Report - helps you improve your website’s performance by displaying key metrics and actionable tips to improve those based on WordPress-specific solutions.\n* Popular Posts - Display popular posts in your post content automatically or using Gutenberg blocks and shortcodes. Show off your top posts to your visitors using sidebar widgets, Gutenberg blocks or shortcodes\n\n= Integrations =\n\n* WooCommerce Google Analytics - Automatically setup Google analytics enhanced eCommerce tracking for WooCommerce and WooCommerce analytics.\n* Easy Digital Downloads Google Analytics - Automatically setup Google analytics enhanced eCommerce tracking for EDD.\n* MemberPress Google Analytics - Automatically setup Google analytics enhanced eCommerce tracking for MemberPress.\n* WPForms Google Analytics - Automatically setup form conversion tracking for WPForms.\n* Formidable Forms Google Analytics - Automatically setup form conversion tracking for Formidable Forms.\n* Gravity Forms Google Analytics - Automatically setup form conversion tracking for Gravity Forms.\n* YouTube Google Analytics - Automatically track video starts, stops, and watch progression of video plays of your YouTube videos.\n* Vimeo Google Analytics - Automatically track video starts, stops, and watch progression of video plays of your Vimeo videos.\n* HTML5 Video Google Analytics - Automatically track video starts, stops, and watch progression of video plays of your Vimeo videos.\n* Exclude from Tracking Google Analytics - Disable loading of Google Analytics tracking on specific pages or posts.\n* Contact Form 7 Google Analytics - Automatically setup form conversion tracking for Contact Form 7.\n* Yoast Google Analytics - Automatically setup SEO score tracking for Yoast SEO with custom dimensions.\n* Pretty Links Google Analytics - Automatically setup affiliate link tracking for Pretty Links.\n* Thirsty Affiliates Google Analytics - Automatically setup affiliate link tracking for Thirsty Affiliates.\n* AffiliateWP Google Analytics - Automatically setup affiliate link tracking for AffiliateWP.\n* User Journey Orders - See which pages visit before becoming customers with WooCommerce, Easy Digital Downloads, MemberPress, LifterLMS, Restrict Content Pro, or GiveWP.\n* User Feedback - Automatically track events and impressions with the popular User Feedback plugin.\n* Google AdSense + Google Analytics - Automatically setup banner ads tracking for Google AdSense.\n* Google Optimize + Google Analytics - Easily enable A/B testing in WordPress with Google Optimize and Google Analytics.\n\nAfter reading this comprehensive feature list, you can probably imagine why over 1 million websites use ExactMetrics as their preferred Google Analytics plugin for WordPress.\n\nGive ExactMetrics a try.\n\n\u003e Love this plugin! It’s got powerful customization options, it’s easy to use, there’s good documentation, and if all that’s not enough, ExactMetrics is quick to provide support. Thanks for this wonderful plugin!\u003cbr\u003e\n\u003e Julie Dupuis\n\n= Credits =\n\nThis plugin is created by \u003ca href=\"https://twitter.com/chriscct7\" rel=\"friend\" title=\"Chris Christoff\"\u003eChris Christoff\u003c/a\u003e and \u003ca href=\"https://syedbalkhi.com/\" rel=\"friend\" title=\"Syed Balkhi\"\u003eSyed Balkhi\u003c/a\u003e with sponsorship from \u003ca href=\"http://www.wpbeginner.com/\" rel=\"friend\" title=\"WPBeginner\"\u003eWPBeginner\u003c/a\u003e.\n\n== Frequently Asked Questions ==\n\n= Does ExactMetrics support Google Analytics v4 (GAv4) =\n\nYes, we fully support Google Analytics v4 (GAv4) properties .\n\n= Where can I find lite support? =\n\nLite support is provided exclusively [on our website](https://www.exactmetrics.com/lite-support).\n\n= How can I suggest a new feature, contribute or report a bug? =\n\nYou can submit pull requests, feature requests and bug reports on [our GitHub repository](https://github.com/awesomemotive/exactmetrics-repo).\n\n= Documentation, Tutorials and FAQ =\n\nFor documentation, tutorials, FAQ and videos check out: [Google Analytics Dashboard for WP by ExactMetrics documentation](https://www.exactmetrics.com/docs/).\n\n== Screenshots ==\n\n1. Google Analytics Dashboard for WP Dashboard Widget (shown in small mode, can be configured to full size or hidden; can also customize reports shown)\n2. Google Analytics Dashboard for WP Overview Report\n3. Google Analytics Dashboard for WP eCommerce Report\n4. Google Analytics Dashboard for WP Settings Page (super simple to use and configure as needed)\n\n== Localization ==\n\nYou can translate Google Analytics Dashboard for WP by ExactMetrics on [translate.wordpress.org](https://translate.wordpress.org/projects/wp-plugins/google-analytics-dashboard-for-wp).\n\n== Installation ==\n\n1. Install Google Analytics Dashboard for WordPress by ExactMetrics either via the WordPress.org plugin repository or by uploading the files to your server. (See instructions on \u003ca href=\"http://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/step-by-step-guide-to-install-a-wordpress-plugin-for-beginners/\" rel=\"friend\"\u003ehow to install a WordPress plugin\u003c/a\u003e)\n2. Activate Google Analytics for WordPress by ExactMetrics.\n3. Navigate to the Insights tab in your WordPress admin menu and configure the plugin.\n4. Want more features? \u003ca href=\"https://www.exactmetrics.com/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteversion\"\u003ePurchase ExactMetrics Pro\u003c/a\u003e!\n\n== Changelog ==\n8.7.4: August 7, 2025\n- Fixed: Minor updates and bug fixes\n\n8.7.3: August 6, 2025\n- Fixed: Minor updates and bug fixes\n\n8.7.1: July 22, 2025\n- Fixed: Minor updates and bug fixes\n\n8.7.0: July 22, 2025\n- Updates: Misc bug fixes and updates\n\n= 8.6.2: June 26, 2025 =\n- Fixed: Minor updates and bug fixes\n\n= 8.6.1: June 12, 2025 =\n- Fixed: Minor updates and bug fixes\n\n= 8.6.0: June 11, 2025 =\n- Enhancement: Updated Forms Report to include more metrics and stats\n- Fixed: Minor updates and bug fixes\n\n= 8.5.3: May 14, 2025 =\n- Fixed: Minor updates and bug fixes\n\n= 8.5.0: April 29, 2025 =\n- New: Support for Pinterest PPC conversion tracking\n- Fixed: Minor updates and bug fixes\n\n= 8.4.1: March 27, 2025 =\n- Fixed: Minor updates and bug fixes\n\n= 8.4.0: March 24, 2025 =\n- New: Support for TikTok PPC conversion tracking\n- Enhancement: Adding translatable strings throughout our plugin. More to come!\n- Enhancement: Our monthly statistics emails got a fresh facelift\n- Enhancement: Our plugin code now follows WP VIP standards\n\n= 8.3.1: January 16, 2025 =\n- Fixed: Minor updates and bug fixes\n\n= 8.3.0: January 15, 2025 =\n- New: Overview Report Metrics\n- New: Cart Abandonment Report\n- Fixed: Minor updates and bug fixes\n\n= 8.2.4: December 13, 2024 =\n- Fixed: Minor updates and bug fixes\n\n= 8.2.3: December 10, 2024 =\n- Fixed: Minor updates and bug fixes\n\n= 8.2.2: November 12, 2024 =\n- New: Our Year In Review report is here. This report will automatically show up starting on January 1\n- Update: We'll now check to ensure your website time zone matches Google Analytics\n\n= 8.2.1: October 31, 2024 =\n- Fixed: Fixed a bug in the Headline Analyzer tool causing errors in WordPress versions lower than 6.6\n\n= 8.2.0: October 22, 2024 =\n- New: Country and region report to see where and how your visitors find your website\n- New: Advanced tracking options for users of Google Tag Manager\n- New: SEO \u0026 RankMath Integrations with our Custom Dimensions addon\n- Fixed: Minor updates and bug fixes\n\n= 8.1.0: September 19, 2024 =\n- New: Stats at a Glance report shows you information about your website in a whole new way.\n- New: Google Ads Enhanced Conversion Support \u0026 Meta Conversion API Support (CAPI) for PPC Campaigns\n- Enhanced: Updated Google Analytics tag loading order to help increase Core Web Vital scores. \n- Fixed: Lots of minor updates and bug fixes.\n\n= 8.0.1: August 21, 2024 =\n- Fix: We resolved an issue in the Onboarding Recommended Addons page.\n\n= 8.0.0: July 25, 2024 =\n- New: Conversations AI - chat with your website's analytics without any need to read reports\n- New: AI Insights - Get automated insights about your website with the power of AI\n- Fix: We fixed a PHP error occurring inside our Forms reports \n\n= 7.28.0: July 08, 2024 =\n-New: Date Comparisons - Now you can easily compare your stats on any chart or graph.\n-Enhancement: We updated the look and feel of things to make it a bit easier to navigate.\n-Enhancement: We updated tooltips to make it easier to understand some options.\n\n= 7.27.0: May 29, 2024 =\n- New: Site Notes Automations addon. \n- Fix: We fixed an issue related to eCommerce abandoned checkouts.\n- Fix: We fixed an issue related to UserJourney report pages.\n- Enhancement: We improved the notification system.\n\n= 7.26.0: April 15, 2024 =\n- New: Added new Exceptions Report\n- New: Added new Google Consent support.\n- Enhancement: We improved the country list in the Funnel Report.\n- Fix: We solved an issue occurring in the plugin onboarding process.\n- Fix: We solved a style issue related to abandoned checkouts in reports.\n\n= 7.25.0: March 05, 2024 =\n- Enhancement: Improved Site Speed report.\n- Fix: We solved an issue related to flag icons.\n- Fix: We solved some JavaScript errors occurring with third-party plugins.\n\n= 7.24.4: February 19, 2024 =\n- Fix: We solved an issue occurring with CloudFlare's CDN.\n\n= 7.24.3: February 16, 2024 =\n- Fix: We solved an issue occurring with some JavaScript files being prevented from loading.\n\n= 7.24.2: February 15, 2024 =\n- Fix: We solved a JavaScript issue occurring with third-party plugins.\n\n= 7.24.1: February 12, 2024 =\n- Fix: We solved an issue occurring with WPBakery.\n\n= 7.24.0: February 08, 2024 =\n- New: Site Insights Gutenberg block. Easily share website stats with your visitors.\n- New: PrivacyGuard Feature - Proactively block PII (Personally Identifiable Information) from ever making it to Google Analytics\n- New: EEA Checker tool for Google Ads / Analytics Requirements\n- Fix: We solved an issue occurring in the Weekly/Monthly Email reports.\n- Fix: We solved an issue occurring with Popular Posts.\n- Fix: We solved an issue occurring with Tracking Video Title in Divi theme.\n\n= 7.23.1: December 18, 2023 =\n- Fix: We fixed an issue related to All in One SEO plugin.\n\n= 7.23.0: December 14, 2023 =\n- New: Our Year In Review report is here. This report will automatically show up starting in January 1 until Jan 14 2024.\n- Fix: We fixed an issue occurring with Site Notes.\n- Fix: We fixed minor issues in the Gutenberg blocks.\n- Fix: We added support for WooCommerce custom order status.\n\n= 7.22.0: November 29, 2023 =\n- Enhancement: Improved Social Media report.\n- Fix: We fixed the View More link in the Email Summaries.\n- Fix: We fixed a Vue warning in Site Notes.\n- Fix: We fixed the sporadic Error 429 from Google Analytics API.\n- Fix: We fixed a duplicate error message in the Setup Checklist.\n\n= 7.21.0: November 13, 2023 =\n- New: Social Media report.\n- New: Exclude query parameters from GA4 data stream.\n- Enhancement: Improved compatibility towards WordPress 6.4.1.\n- Fix: We fixed an issue that occurred with Pretty Links.\n\n= 7.20.2: November 01, 2023 =\n- Fix: Popular posts, we fixed a bug occurring in curated popular posts.\n\n= 7.20.1: October 09, 2023 =\n- Fix: We updated our lite emails to render better inside multiple mail clients. We also changed the emails to send out monthly instead of weekly. To disable emails go to Settings -\u003e Advanced - Toggle the \"Enable Email Summaries.\n\n= 7.20: October 02, 2023 =\n- New: Google Analytics and eCommerce support for WishList Member\n- New: Google Analytics and eCommerce support for WPCharitable \n- Enhanced: Improved support for PHP 8.2.\n- Enhanced: Improved Site Health compatibility.\n- Fixed: Restrict Content Pro, we fixed the refund event in GoogleAnalytics when order status is failed or abandoned.\n- Fixed: We fixed some minor bugs related to notifications. \n- Fixed: Popular posts, we fixed a bug occurring in curated popular posts.\n- Fixed: We fixed some minor bugs related to User Journey.\n\n= 7.19: August 22, 2023 =\n- New: Ecommerce funnel report for WooCommerce and Easy Digital Downloads.\n- New: Setup checklist to get up and running faster\n- Enhanced: Improved support for PHP 8.2.\n- Fixed: We fixed a bug that occurred with Yoast SEO Scores.\n- Fixed: We fixed a bug in the Pretty Links integration.\n\n= 7.18.1: July 24, 2023 =\n- Update: We improved the GoogleAnalytics 4 reports.\n\n= 7.18: July 20, 2023 =\n- New: Added 6 Completely New Pro Reports to bring the power of Google Analytics into your WordPress dashboard.\n- Fixed: We fixed an issue that prevented tracking with WPML.\n- Fixed: We fixed an issue that prevented tracking the User Journey with MemberPress.\n\n= 7.17: June 29, 2023 =\n- Updated: Removed dual tracking panel and limit reporting to GA4 only properties.\n- Fixed: We fixed a bug in the WPForms integration.\n- Fixed: We fixed a bug in the AffiliateWP integration.\n\n= 7.16: June 15, 2023 =\n- New: User Journey report now available! See all of your website's purchases in one screen. \n- Update: We updated the Popular Posts to support themes that allow widgets. \n- Fixed: We fixed some layout issues in exported PDF reports.\n- Fixed: We fixed the deprecated YOAST function WPSEO_Utils::translate_score().\n- Fixed: We fixed a bug occurring while downloading files having the file download tracking enabled.\n\n= 7.15.3: May 08, 2023 =\n- Enhancement: We updated and tweaked some settings with our Site Notes feature.\n\n= 7.15.2: May 03, 2023 =\n- New: Site Notes allows you to record important website events right inside your WordPress dashboard.\n- Update: Fix EDD integration.\n- Update: Mobile screen optimizations.\n\n= 7.15.1: May 02, 2023 =\n- Fix: Fixed a critical error.\n\n= 7.15: May 02, 2023 =\n- New: Site Notes allows you to record important website events right inside your WordPress dashboard.\n- Update: Fix EDD integration.\n- Update: Mobile screen optimizations.\n\n= 7.14.2: Apr 11, 2023 =\n- Fixed: We fixed a PHP warning error and added additional security hardening.\n\n= 7.14.1: Mar 29, 2023 =\n- Fixed: We fixed the Addons page UI.\n\n= 7.14.0: Mar 27, 2023 =\n- New: Our New PPC Tracking addon allows you to effortlessly track sales inside Google Ads, Microsoft Ads, and Meta.\n- Enhancement: We updated and tweaked lots elements to make our dashboard easier to use\n\n= 7.13.1: Mar 21, 2023 =\n- Fixed: We fixed the admin menu text.\n\n= 7.13.0: Mar 13, 2023 =\n- Enhancement: We enhanced the notifications user experience.\n- Fixed: We fixed the PDF reports header.\n- Update: We applied additional security hardening.\n\n= 7.12.1: Jan 12, 2023 =\n- Fix: We made updates to authentication\n\n= 7.12.0: Jan 12, 2023 =\n- Enhancement: We updated and fixed some UI/UX elements to make ExactMetrics easier to use\n- Enhancement: We optimized our Javascript code to work better with minification plugins\n- Enhancement: We optimized our Javascript code to work better with minification plugins\n- Enhancement: We optimized the Javascript code to work nicely with minification plugins\n- Enhancement: We optimized our code to work better with PHP8\n\n**See our [changelog](https://www.exactmetrics.com/changelog/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteversion) for previous releases.**","meta":{"last_version":"8.7.1"},"ip":"107.180.250.162","timestamp":"2025-09-09T15:51:43.993338+05:30","curl-command":"curl -X 'GET' -d '' -H 'Accept: */*' -H 'Accept-Language: en' -H 'User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_15_7) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/15.0 Safari/605.1.15' 'https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/google-analytics-dashboard-for-wp/readme.txt'","matcher-status":true}
{"template":"http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/gutenberg.yaml","template-url":"https://cloud.projectdiscovery.io/public/wordpress-gutenberg","template-id":"wordpress-gutenberg","template-path":"/Users/ayushi/nuclei-templates/http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/gutenberg.yaml","info":{"name":"Gutenberg Detection","author":["ricardomaia"],"tags":["tech","wordpress","wp-plugin","top-200"],"reference":["https://wordpress.org/plugins/gutenberg/"],"severity":"info","metadata":{"plugin_namespace":"gutenberg","wpscan":"https://wpscan.com/plugin/gutenberg"}},"extractor-name":"detected_version","type":"http","host":"hypertrends.com","port":"443","scheme":"https","url":"https://hypertrends.com","matched-at":"https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/gutenberg/readme.txt","extracted-results":["21.5.0"],"request":"GET /wp-content/plugins/gutenberg/readme.txt HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: hypertrends.com\r\nUser-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/90.0.4430.93 Safari/537.36\r\nAccept: */*\r\nAccept-Language: en\r\nAccept-Encoding: gzip\r\n\r\n","response":"HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r\nConnection: close\r\nTransfer-Encoding: chunked\r\nContent-Security-Policy: default-src * 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval' data: blob:;\r\nContent-Type: text/plain\r\nDate: Tue, 09 Sep 2025 10:21:44 GMT\r\nEtag: W/\"68b012cb-1ea4\"\r\nLast-Modified: Thu, 28 Aug 2025 08:26:51 GMT\r\nReferrer-Policy: no-referrer-when-downgrade\r\nServer: nginx\r\nStrict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000;\r\nVary: Accept-Encoding\r\nX-Content-Type-Options: nosniff\r\nX-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN\r\nX-Rocket-Nginx-Serving-Static: MISS\r\nX-Xss-Protection: 1; mode=block\r\n\r\n=== Gutenberg ===\nContributors: matveb, joen, karmatosed\nTested up to: 6.8\nStable tag: 21.5.0\nLicense: GPLv2 or later\nLicense URI: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html\n\nThe Gutenberg plugin adds editing, customization, and site building to WordPress. Use it to test beta features before their official release.\n\n== Description ==\n\n“Gutenberg” is a codename for a whole new paradigm for creating with WordPress, that aims to revolutionize the entire publishing experience as much as \u003ca href=\"https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Johannes_Gutenberg\"\u003eJohannes Gutenberg\u003c/a\u003e did the printed word. The project is \u003ca href=\"https://wordpress.org/about/roadmap/\"\u003efollowing a four-phase process\u003c/a\u003e that will touch major pieces of WordPress — Editing, Customization, Collaboration, and Multilingual.\n\nFollowing the introduction of post block editing in December 2018, Gutenberg later introduced full site editing (FSE) in 2021, \u003ca href=\"https://wordpress.org/news/2022/01/josephine/\"\u003ewhich shipped with WordPress 5.9 in early 2022\u003c/a\u003e.\n\n### What Does Gutenberg Do?\n\nGutenberg is WordPress's “block editor”, and introduces a modular approach to modifying your entire site. Edit individual content blocks on posts or pages. Add and adjust widgets. Even design your site headers, footers, and navigation with full site editing support.\n\nEach piece of content in the editor, from a paragraph to an image gallery to a headline, is its own block. And just like physical blocks, WordPress blocks can be added, arranged, and rearranged, allowing users to create media-rich content and site layouts in a visually intuitive way — and without workarounds like shortcodes or custom HTML and PHP.\n\nWe’re always hard at work refining the experience, creating more and better blocks, and laying the groundwork for future phases of work. Each WordPress release includes stable features from the Gutenberg plugin, so you don’t need to install the plugin to benefit from the work being done here.\n\n### Early Access\n\nAre you a tech-savvy early adopter who likes testing bleeding-edge and experimental features, and isn’t afraid to tinker with features that are still in active development? If so, this beta plugin gives you access to the latest Gutenberg features for block and full site editing, as well as a peek into what’s to come.\n\n### Contributors Wanted\n\nFor the adventurous and tech-savvy, the Gutenberg plugin gives you the latest and greatest feature set, so you can join us in testing and developing bleeding-edge features, playing around with blocks, and maybe \u003ca href=\"https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/contributors/\"\u003eget inspired to contribute\u003c/a\u003e or \u003ca href=\"https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/how-to-guides/block-tutorial/\"\u003ebuild your own blocks\u003c/a\u003e.\n\n### Discover More\n\n- **User Documentation:** Review the \u003ca href=\"https://wordpress.org/documentation/article/wordpress-block-editor/\"\u003eWordPress Editor documentation\u003c/a\u003e for detailed instructions on using the editor as an author to create posts, pages, and more.\n\n- **Developer Documentation:** Explore the \u003ca href=\"https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/\"\u003eDeveloper Documentation\u003c/a\u003e for extensive tutorials, documentation, and API references on how to extend the editor.\n\n- **Contributors:** Gutenberg is an open-source project and welcomes all contributors from code to design, from documentation to triage. See the \u003ca href=\"https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/contributors/\"\u003eContributor's Handbook\u003c/a\u003e for all the details on how you can help.\n\nThe development hub for the Gutenberg project can be found at \u003ca href=\"https://github.com/wordpress/gutenberg\"\u003ehttps://github.com/wordpress/gutenberg\u003c/a\u003e. Discussions for the project are on the \u003ca href=\"https://make.wordpress.org/core/\"\u003eMake Core Blog\u003c/a\u003e and in the #core-editor channel in Slack, \u003ca href=\"https://make.wordpress.org/core/tag/core-editor-agenda/\"\u003eincluding weekly meetings\u003c/a\u003e. If you don’t have a Slack account, you can \u003ca href=\"https://make.wordpress.org/chat/\"\u003esign up here\u003c/a\u003e.\n\n== Frequently Asked Questions ==\n\n= How can I send feedback or get help with a bug? =\n\nThe best place to report bugs, feature suggestions, or any other feedback is at \u003ca href=\"https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/issues\"\u003ethe Gutenberg GitHub issues page\u003c/a\u003e. Before submitting a new issue, please search the existing issues to check if someone else has reported the same feedback.\n\nWhile we try to triage issues reported here on the plugin forum, you’ll get a faster response (and reduce duplication of effort) by keeping feedback centralized in GitHub.\n\n= Where can I report security bugs? =\n\nThe Gutenberg team and WordPress community take security bugs seriously. We appreciate your efforts to responsibly disclose your findings, and will make every effort to acknowledge your contributions.\n\nTo report a security issue, please visit the [WordPress HackerOne](https://hackerone.com/wordpress) program.\n\n= Do I have to use the Gutenberg plugin to get access to these features? =\n\nNot necessarily. Each version of WordPress after 5.0 has included features from the Gutenberg plugin, which are known collectively as the \u003ca href=\"https://wordpress.org/documentation/article/wordpress-block-editor/\"\u003eWordPress Editor\u003c/a\u003e. You are likely already benefiting from stable features!\n\nBut if you want cutting edge beta features, including more experimental items, you will need to use the plugin. You can \u003ca href=\"https://wordpress.org/news/2021/04/become-an-early-adopter-with-the-gutenberg-plugin/\"\u003eread more here\u003c/a\u003e to help decide whether the plugin is right for you.\n\n= Where can I see which Gutenberg plugin versions are included in each WordPress release? =\n\nView the \u003ca href=\"https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/principles/versions-in-wordpress/\"\u003eVersions in WordPress\u003c/a\u003e document to get a table showing which Gutenberg plugin version is included in each WordPress release.\n\n= What’s next for the project? =\n\nThe four phases of the project are Editing, Customization, Collaboration, and Multilingual. You can hear more about the project and phases from Matt in his State of the Word talks for \u003ca href=\"https://ma.tt/2021/12/state-of-the-word-in-person/\"\u003e2021\u003c/a\u003e, \u003ca href=\"https://ma.tt/2020/12/sotw-2020/\"\u003e2020\u003c/a\u003e, \u003ca href=\"https://ma.tt/2019/11/state-of-the-word-2019/\"\u003e2019\u003c/a\u003e, and \u003ca href=\"https://ma.tt/2018/12/state-of-the-word-2018/\"\u003e2018\u003c/a\u003e. Additionally, you can follow the \u003ca href=\"https://make.wordpress.org/core/tag/gutenberg-new/\"\u003ebiweekly release notes\u003c/a\u003e and \u003ca href=\"https://make.wordpress.org/core/tag/gutenberg-next/\"\u003emonthly project plan updates\u003c/a\u003e on the \u003ca href=\"https://make.wordpress.org/core/?s=gutenberg\"\u003eMake WordPress Core blog\u003c/a\u003e for more up to date information about what’s happening now.\n\n\n= Where can I read more about Gutenberg? =\n\n- \u003ca href=\"http://matiasventura.com/post/gutenberg-or-the-ship-of-theseus/\"\u003eGutenberg, or the Ship of Theseus\u003c/a\u003e, with examples of what Gutenberg might do in the future\n- \u003ca href=\"https://make.wordpress.org/core/2017/01/17/editor-technical-overview/\"\u003eEditor Technical Overview\u003c/a\u003e\n- \u003ca href=\"https://wordpress.org/gutenberg/handbook/reference/design-principles/\"\u003eDesign Principles and block design best practices\u003c/a\u003e\n- \u003ca href=\"https://github.com/Automattic/wp-post-grammar\"\u003eWP Post Grammar Parser\u003c/a\u003e\n- \u003ca href=\"https://make.wordpress.org/core/tag/gutenberg/\"\u003eDevelopment updates on make.wordpress.org\u003c/a\u003e\n- \u003ca href=\"https://wordpress.org/gutenberg/handbook/\"\u003eDocumentation: Creating Blocks, Reference, and Guidelines\u003c/a\u003e\n- \u003ca href=\"https://wordpress.org/gutenberg/handbook/reference/faq/\"\u003eAdditional frequently asked questions\u003c/a\u003e\n\n== Changelog ==\n\nTo read the changelog for the latest Gutenberg release, please navigate to the \u003ca href=\"https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/releases/latest\"\u003erelease page\u003c/a\u003e.\n","meta":{"last_version":"21.2.0"},"ip":"107.180.250.162","timestamp":"2025-09-09T15:51:45.029875+05:30","curl-command":"curl -X 'GET' -d '' -H 'Accept: */*' -H 'Accept-Language: en' -H 'User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/90.0.4430.93 Safari/537.36' 'https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/gutenberg/readme.txt'","matcher-status":true}
{"template":"http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/hello-dolly.yaml","template-url":"https://cloud.projectdiscovery.io/public/wordpress-hello-dolly","template-id":"wordpress-hello-dolly","template-path":"/Users/ayushi/nuclei-templates/http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/hello-dolly.yaml","info":{"name":"Hello Dolly Detection","author":["ricardomaia"],"tags":["tech","wordpress","wp-plugin","top-100","top-200"],"reference":["https://wordpress.org/plugins/hello-dolly/"],"severity":"info","metadata":{"plugin_namespace":"hello-dolly","wpscan":"https://wpscan.com/plugin/hello-dolly"}},"matcher-name":"outdated_version","type":"http","host":"hypertrends.com","port":"443","scheme":"https","url":"https://hypertrends.com","matched-at":"https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/hello-dolly/readme.txt","extracted-results":["1.7.2"],"request":"GET /wp-content/plugins/hello-dolly/readme.txt HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: hypertrends.com\r\nUser-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (SS; Linux x86_64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/118.0.0.0 Safari/537.36\r\nAccept: */*\r\nAccept-Language: en\r\nAccept-Encoding: gzip\r\n\r\n","response":"HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r\nConnection: close\r\nContent-Length: 623\r\nAccept-Ranges: bytes\r\nContent-Security-Policy: default-src * 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval' data: blob:;\r\nContent-Type: text/plain\r\nDate: Tue, 09 Sep 2025 10:21:45 GMT\r\nEtag: \"5e8a6418-26f\"\r\nLast-Modified: Sun, 05 Apr 2020 23:04:56 GMT\r\nReferrer-Policy: no-referrer-when-downgrade\r\nServer: nginx\r\nStrict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000;\r\nX-Content-Type-Options: nosniff\r\nX-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN\r\nX-Rocket-Nginx-Serving-Static: MISS\r\nX-Xss-Protection: 1; mode=block\r\n\r\n=== Hello Dolly ===\nContributors: matt, wordpressdotorg\nStable tag: 1.7.2\nTested up to: 5.2\nRequires at least: 4.6\n\nThis is not just a plugin, it symbolizes the hope and enthusiasm of an entire generation summed up in two words sung most famously by Louis Armstrong.\n\n== Description ==\n\nThis is not just a plugin, it symbolizes the hope and enthusiasm of an entire generation summed up in two words sung most famously by Louis Armstrong: Hello, Dolly. When activated you will randomly see a lyric from \u003ccite\u003eHello, Dolly\u003c/cite\u003e in the upper right of your admin screen on every page.\n\nThanks to Sanjib Ahmad for the artwork.","meta":{"last_version":"1.7.3"},"ip":"107.180.250.162","timestamp":"2025-09-09T15:51:45.93588+05:30","curl-command":"curl -X 'GET' -d '' -H 'Accept: */*' -H 'Accept-Language: en' -H 'User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (SS; Linux x86_64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/118.0.0.0 Safari/537.36' 'https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/hello-dolly/readme.txt'","matcher-status":true}
{"template":"http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/insert-headers-and-footers.yaml","template-url":"https://cloud.projectdiscovery.io/public/wordpress-insert-headers-and-footers","template-id":"wordpress-insert-headers-and-footers","template-path":"/Users/ayushi/nuclei-templates/http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/insert-headers-and-footers.yaml","info":{"name":"WPCode – Insert Headers and Footers + Custom Code Snippets – WordPress Code Manager Detection","author":["ricardomaia"],"tags":["tech","wordpress","wp-plugin","top-100","top-200"],"reference":["https://wordpress.org/plugins/insert-headers-and-footers/"],"severity":"info","metadata":{"plugin_namespace":"insert-headers-and-footers","wpscan":"https://wpscan.com/plugin/insert-headers-and-footers"}},"extractor-name":"detected_version","type":"http","host":"hypertrends.com","port":"443","scheme":"https","url":"https://hypertrends.com","matched-at":"https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/insert-headers-and-footers/readme.txt","extracted-results":["2.3.0"],"request":"GET /wp-content/plugins/insert-headers-and-footers/readme.txt HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: hypertrends.com\r\nUser-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux i686) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/135.0.0.0 Safari/537.36\r\nAccept: */*\r\nAccept-Language: en\r\nAccept-Encoding: gzip\r\n\r\n","response":"HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r\nConnection: close\r\nTransfer-Encoding: chunked\r\nContent-Security-Policy: default-src * 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval' data: blob:;\r\nContent-Type: text/plain\r\nDate: Tue, 09 Sep 2025 10:21:46 GMT\r\nEtag: W/\"689d9333-55b0\"\r\nLast-Modified: Thu, 14 Aug 2025 07:41:39 GMT\r\nReferrer-Policy: no-referrer-when-downgrade\r\nServer: nginx\r\nStrict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000;\r\nVary: Accept-Encoding\r\nX-Content-Type-Options: nosniff\r\nX-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN\r\nX-Rocket-Nginx-Serving-Static: MISS\r\nX-Xss-Protection: 1; mode=block\r\n\r\n=== WPCode - Insert Headers and Footers + Custom Code Snippets - WordPress Code Manager ===\nContributors: WPbeginner, smub, gripgrip, wpcodeteam\nTags: code, css, php, header, code snippets\nRequires at least: 4.6\nTested up to: 6.8\nRequires PHP: 5.5\nStable tag: 2.3.0\nLicense: GPLv2 or later\nLicense URI: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html\n\nEasily add code snippets in WordPress. Insert header \u0026 footer scripts, add PHP code snippets with conditional logic, insert ads pixel code, and more.\n\n\n== Description ==\n\n= Insert Headers \u0026 Footers + Full WordPress Code Snippets Plugin =\n\n[WPCode](https://wpcode.com/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin) (formerly known as Insert Headers and Footers by WPBeginner) is the most popular code snippets plugin for WordPress used by over 2 million websites.\n\nWe make it easy for you to add code snippets in WordPress without having to edit your theme's functions.php file.\n\nOur simple insert headers and footers interface allows you to insert code like Google Analytics, custom CSS, Facebook Pixel, and more to your WordPress site's header and footer as well other areas of your website. No need to edit your theme files!\n\nAside from Header and Footer scripts, you can also use WPCode to insert custom PHP code snippets, JavaScript code snippets, CSS code snippets, HTML code snippets, and text snippets with full conditional logic support.\n\nWe took the pain out of adding custom code snippets in WordPress and made it easy.\n\n\u003e I have been using Insert Headers and Footers and it is such a useful tool. Super helpful and the very best of its kind. Highly recommend\n\u003e The_Gibble - WordPress user\n\n= Quick Overview of WPCode from WPBeginner =\n\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Fo-7MKRRUec\n\n\u003e \u003cstrong\u003eIntroducing New WPCode Pro\u003c/strong\u003e\u003cbr /\u003e\n\u003e While WPCode Lite offers tons of powerful features for free, we listened to user feedback and created WPCode Pro with even more amazing features to improve your workflow. This includes smart conditional logic, saving code snippets to cloud library, code revisions, page-specific snippets, deeper integration with popular plugins like WooCommerce, Easy Digital Downloads, and so much more. [Click here to purchase the best premium WordPress code snippet plugin now!](https://wpcode.com/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin)\n\n= Future Proof Code Snippet Management =\n\nMost [WordPress tutorial websites](https://www.wpbeginner.com/category/wp-tutorials/) ask you to add code snippets to your theme's functions.php file. This makes managing code snippets messy, and it also prevents you from updating your theme.\n\nIf you ever update your theme or switch to another theme, then you will lose all custom code functions that you added in your functions.php file.\n\nWPCode solves this by providing you an easy way to insert header and footer scripts along with other code snippets directly from your WordPress dashboard. These code snippets actually run as if they were in your theme's functions.php file.\n\nOur smart code snippet validation helps you prevent common code errors to ensure you never break your website when adding code snippets or header and footer scripts.\n\n\u003cstrong\u003eNew WPCode Cloud Library\u003c/strong\u003e even allows you to store all your custom code snippets in a cloud library, so you can easily re-use code snippets across multiple website projects and save time. You can keep your code snippets completely private or [share it with the community](https://library.wpcode.com/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin) to give back while boosting your social profile.\n\n\u003e This plugin allows me to not only add things to my site whenever needed, but it takes me only seconds to accomplish it.\n\u003e David Weber - WordPress user\n\n= Full Code Snippets Library and Code Generators =\n\nEver wanted a central place to find all the most popular WordPress code snippets that are tested and proven to work?\n\nWhen we started Insert Headers and Footers plugin, we did too. So we built a WordPress code snippets library right inside the WPCode plugin.\n\nYou will find verified PHP code snippets for popular feature requests like disable REST API, disable XML-RPC, disable comments, allow SVG file uploads, disable Gutenberg, add Classic Editor, and more without installing separate plugins for each.\n\n\u003e I was very hesitant to get into any of the code for my website. Your plugin made it easy for me to do.\n\u003e Conbrio75 - WordPress user\n\nWe also built the ability to save your code snippets to [WPCode Cloud Library](https://library.wpcode.com/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin), so you can easily re-use it on your other websites, client projects, or even share it with the larger community.\n\nWPCode Cloud Library helps you better organize your code snippets in one central location, so you can save more time and speed up your workflow when managing websites. No more wasting time looking for custom notes or Github gists.\n\nAside from our growing code snippets library, we also have WordPress code generators to help you quickly get ready-to-use custom code using the latest WordPress coding standards and API's.\n\n= Conditional Logic for Code Snippets + Code Insertion Priority =\n\nOur goal with WPCode was to create a WordPress code snippets plugin that's both EASY and POWERFUL.\n\nThat's why aside from our global header and footer scripts, we added advanced features like conditional logic for code snippets and made it easy.\n\nInstead of learning WordPress conditional logic queries, you can use our beginner-friendly conditional logic user interface to:\n\n* Load code snippets for logged in users only\n* Load PHP code snippets for specific user roles\n* Load PHP code snippets only on specific page URLs\n* Insert header and footer pixel scripts on specific pages\n* Show code snippets based on type of page\n* Run code snippet only on certain post types\n* Load header and footer code snippet based on referrer source\n* and more...\n\nWe also added both automatic code insertion and manual code output using shortcodes.\n\nOur Auto Insert feature allows you to run the code snippet everywhere or choose from custom options like:\n\n* Run code snippet only on frontend\n* Run code snippet only in WordPress admin area\n* Add header and footer scripts sitewide\n* Insert PHP code snippet before or after post content\n* Insert code snippet before or after specific paragraph\n* Insert code snippet on specific archive pages\n* Insert code snippets after specific WooCommerce function ([Pro Feature](https://wpcode.com/?utm_source=wprepo\u0026utm_medium=link\u0026utm_campaign=liteplugin))\n\nAside from that, we also added a visual code snippet priority system, so you can choose the order for your custom functions to avoid code conflict.\n\n\u003e This is such a useful plugin! It makes it so much easier to include things on your website!\n\u003e Understoryliving - WordPress user\n\nAnd for even more flexibility and customization, we have added the ability for you to add page-specific code snippets right from the WordPress classic editor as well as the Gutenberg editor. You can even load code snippets based on device type such as mobile only code snippets, desktop only code snippets, etc.\n\n= Import and Export Code Snippets =\n\nManaging multiple websites or developing in a staging environment?\n\nWe offer an easy way to import and export your custom code snippets, functions, and header and footer scripts to help you save time.\n\nYou can also save your code snippets to WPCode Cloud (Pro feature), so you can easily re-use the same code snippets across multiple websites. This also allows you to better organize your code snippets instead of wasting time searching for random Github gists.\n\n\u003e Simple plugin I use in quite every site. Very useful to insert scripts and tags.\n\u003e tommasoperego - WordPress user\n\n= Full WPCode Feature List =\n\nThe simple interface of WPCode plugin (formerly known as Insert Headers and Footers) gives you one place where you can insert header and footer scripts as well as custom code snippets rather than dealing with dozens of different plugins.\n\nBelow is a full list of WPCode features:\n\n* Quick to set up\n* Unlimited code snippets\n* Simple to insert header and footer scripts globally\n* Beginner Friendly Code Editor with Syntax Highlighter for PHP, JavaScript, and HTML\n* Smart Code Validation to Prevent PHP Errors\n* Insert header code and/or footer code using Conditional Logic\n* Add \u003cstrong\u003eGoogle Analytics\u003c/strong\u003e code to header and footer\n* Add \u003cstrong\u003ecustom CSS\u003c/strong\u003e code to any theme\n* Insert \u003cstrong\u003eFacebook pixel\u003c/strong\u003e code in header and footer\n* Insert any code or script, including HTML and Javascript\n* Insert PHP Code Snippets\n* Ready-made Code Snippet Library\n* Custom WordPress Code Snippet Generator\n* Show or Hide PHP Code Snippets based on conditional logic\n* Run PHP code and custom code snippets everywhere or in select areas using smart auto-insert rules.\n* Manually insert PHP code snippets using shortcodes anywhere on website\n* Add Rich Text Ads and Content Snippets automatically on posts \u0026 pages.\n* Export / Import Code Snippets\n* \u003cstrong\u003eNew\u003c/strong\u003e Save snippets to Cloud Library - All your snippets stored in your private code snippet cloud.\n* \u003cstrong\u003eNew\u003c/strong\u003e Deep integrations with Gutenberg, WooCommerce, and more.\n* Device specific code snippets (such as load code snippets on mobile only, desktop only, etc)\n* and more features coming soon.\n\n= Credits =\n\nInsert Headers and Footers plugin was first created by [Syed Balkhi](https://syedbalkhi.com/) and the [WPBeginner](http://www.wpbeginner.com/) team in 2011.\n\nIt was later rebranded to WPCode in 2022 by Syed Balkhi to add powerful code snippets features that users were requesting for.\n\n= Branding Guideline =\n\nWPCode™ is a trademark of WPCode LLC. When writing about the Insert Headers and Footers - Code Snippets plugin by WPCode, please make sure to uppercase the initial 3 letters.\n\nWPCode (correct)\nWP Code (incorrect)\nwpcode (incorrect)\nwp code snippets (incorrect)\n\n== Installation ==\n\n1. Install WPCode - Insert Headers, Footers, and Code Snippets plugin by uploading the `insert-headers-and-footers` directory to the `/wp-content/plugins/` directory. (See instructions on \u003ca href=\"http://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/step-by-step-guide-to-install-a-wordpress-plugin-for-beginners/\" rel=\"friend\"\u003ehow to install a WordPress plugin\u003c/a\u003e.)\n2. Activate WPCode - Insert Headers, Footers, and Code Snippets plugin through the `Plugins` menu in WordPress.\n3. Insert code in your header and footer or add custom code snippets by going to the `Code Snippets` menu.\n\n[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QXbrdVjWaME]\n\n== Screenshots ==\n\n1. WordPress Code Snippets Management Screen\n2. Ready-Made Code Snippets Library\n3. Edit PHP Snippets with Code Syntax Highlighter\n4. Show / Hide Code Snippets with Smart Conditional Logic\n5. Custom WordPress Code Generators\n6. Example of Custom Post Type Generator\n7. Insert Header and Footer Scripts Globally\n8. Import and Export Code Snippets\n9. Private Snippets Library In Plugin\n10. Page-Specific Scripts Metabox\n\n== Frequently Asked Questions ==\n\n= Can I use WPCode - Insert Headers and Footers to install Google Analytics? =\n\nYes, you can insert your Google Analytics code in the `Scripts in Header` field.\n\n= Can I use WPCode - Insert Headers and Footers for Google AdSense? =\n\nYes, to verify your account or to tag your page for Auto ads, paste the code AdSense gives you, into the Scripts in Header field.\n\n= Will I lose my snippets if I change my WordPress theme? =\n\nNo, the idea behind WPCode - Insert Headers, Footers, and Code Snippets plugin is so you can safely add code snippets.\n\nAll code snippets are stored in the WordPress database, independent of the theme upgrades.\n\n= Can I switch back to the old version of Insert Headers and Footers? =\n\nYes, if you don't want the advanced code snippets functionality, then you can switch back to the old Insert Headers and Footers features by simply going to the Settings Menu and clicking on the Headers \u0026 Footers mode.\n\n= What Type of Code Snippets can I add? =\n\nWith WPCode, you can add any type of code snippet that you would otherwise add in your theme's functions.php file or in a site-specific plugin.\n\nThis includes custom PHP snippets, JavaScript snippets, HTML snippet, CSS snippets, Text Snippets, Conversion pixels, Tracking scripts, AdSense or other banner ads code, and more.\n\n= What are some example plugins WPCode can replace? =\n\nWPCode comes with a ready-made code snippets library that allows you to replace several popular plugins including:\n\n* Disable Comment plugins\n* Disable XML-RPC plugins\n* Disable Rest API plugins\n* Disable Gutenberg plugins\n* Classic Editor plugin\n* Allow SVG File Upload plugins\n* Disable RSS feed plugins\n* Disable Search plugins\n* Disable Automatic Updates plugins\n* Disable Admin Bar plugins\n* Disable Widget Blocks plugin\n* Classic Widgets plugin\n* Remove WordPress Version Number plugins\n* Google Analytics plugins\n* Facebook Pixel plugins\n* Google AdSense plugins\n* Custom Post Types UI plugins\n* Other WordPress Generator plugins\n\n... and basically any plugin that adds a functionality which can be added via custom code snippets.\n\n== Changelog ==\n\n= 2.3.0 =\n* New: We added a way to 1-click update snippets installed from the WPCode library when new versions are available.\n* Tweak: We improved JSON code snippets import validation to show accurate error messages when files are incorrectly formatted.\n\n= 2.2.9 =\n* New: Added a new importer for the Post Snippets plugin to make it easier to migrate your code snippets.\n* Tweak: We adjusted the way the safe mode works to limit its effects on frontend urls.\n\n= 2.2.8 =\n* New: Schema Generators - we added 20 new code generators to make it easier to manage schema code on your website.\n* Tweak: We moved the button to update generated snippets to the top so that you can update snippets easier.\n* Tweak: We added \"suppress_filters\" to WP_Query used by WPCode to avoid conflicts with other plugins.\n* Fix: We fixed an issue where the generated snippets were not automatically inserted when activated.\n\n= 2.2.7 =\n* New: Added support for automatically importing snippets from 2 new plugins.\n\n= 2.2.6 =\n* New: Easily find where your snippet is used as a shortcode with our new shortcode finder tool. 1-click search through your site.\n* New: Improved editor for snippet notes. You can now add links and format text with a WYSIWYG editor.\n* New: Snippet notes column. Display the notes for each snippet in the list of snippets.\n* Fix: We improved the code snippets list filtering in the admin to avoid issues when JS errors are encountered on the page from other scripts.\n\n= 2.2.5 =\n* New: We added a new way to quickly filter snippets by code type in the list of snippets.\n* Tweak: Prevent content_save_pre from modifying snippet code.\n\n= 2.2.4.1 =\n* Fix: Shortcode attributes variables were not being set correctly.\n\n= 2.2.4 =\n* Tweak: We adjusted the way our plugin adds a version-specific body class to avoid conflicts with other plugins.\n* Tweak: We improved the way custom PHP code is executed to avoid conflicts with variables in snippets.\n* Fix: When removing the last Conditional Logic group the rule selector was no longer working.\n\n= 2.2.3.1 =\n* Tweak: Updated the way we load translatable strings in some components for compatibility with WordPress 6.7.\n\n= 2.2.3 =\n* Tweak: We updated the way we validate PHP snippets when making an edit to an active snippet for better feedback when debugging.\n* Tweak: We replaced a dependency (SweetAlert2) for a more lightweight alternative to improve performance.\n\n= 2.2.2 =\n* New: The Add Snippet screen now makes it easier to get started with more than just our library of snippets, choose from expert-picked snippets, snippet generators or plugin-specific snippets.\n* New: We updated the code type picker for more clarity on what each code type is useful for and the last code type you used is now saved for a streamlined experience when adding multiple snippets.\n* Tweak: We extended the unfiltered HTML permissions notice when the DISALLOW_UNFILTERED_HTML constant is defined to add more clarity.\n\n= 2.2.1 =\n* Fix: We fixed a bug that was causing the selected conditional logic operator to not be displayed correctly for some rules.\n* Fix: The auto-insert location picker was not opening again in some situations.\n\n= 2.2.0 =\n* New: We updated the conditional logic rules picker for more clarity and ease of use.\n* New: We expanded our automatic cache clearing to include the Swift Performance plugin.\n* Tweak: The Page URL conditional logic option now supports query params and wp-admin URLs.\n\n= 2.1.14 =\n* New: When making changes to the Global Header \u0026 Footer WPCode will attempt to automatically clear page cache for popular caching plugins.\n* New: Save your snippet with a keyboard shortcut by pressing CTRL+S (Windows) or CMD+S (Mac) in the snippet editor.\n* Tweak: Prevent error when TinyMCE is disabled by other plugins.\n\n= 2.1.13 =\n* New: We added admin-specific locations for header and footer to streamline customizations in the wp-admin area.\n* New: The code editor height can now be adjusted directly from the snippet editor screen. Auto-height is still available as an option on the settings page.\n* Fix: When making changes to a snippet, the function to prevent you from navigating away was no longer working.\n\n= 2.1.12 =\n* New: We added a new way to execute PHP snippets \"On Demand\" - look for the \"On Demand\" location in the Auto Insert settings.\n* Tweak: We added checks in place to prevent malicious code patterns from being used in WPCode.\n* Fix: We fixed a bug where the conditional logic for logged-in users was not being saved correctly the first time.\n\n= 2.1.11 =\n* Tweak: We improved the admin bar menu to fix an JS error in some scenarios and a html validation issue.\n* Tweak: We added support for importing snippets from the Code Snippets Pro plugin.\n* Fix: We fixed an issue with importing CSS snippets.\n\n= 2.1.10 =\n* New: When another user is editing the same snippet, we now show a warning to avoid conflicts.\n* Tweak: Improved mobile styles across the plugin admin for better readability.\n\n= 2.1.9 =\n* New: Conditional logic rule for Blog home page (posts page)\n* Tweak: Improved the connect to library flow to avoid the connect window from getting blocked.\n* Fix: Author archive condition was not working as intended.\n\n= 2.1.8 =\n* Tweak: We changed the way the code generators are loaded to improve performance overall.\n* Tweak: We changed the way translations are loaded for better performance.\n\n= 2.1.7 =\n* New: WPCode now has a Dark Mode for those late night coding sessions. Enable it on the settings page.\n* Tweak: We improved the way the error messages are displayed in the snippet editor for more clarity.\n* Fix: The snippet editor was no longer running syntax checks for PHP snippets upon activation.\n* Fix: We fixed a bug where in certain versions of Safari the auto-insert location was being unset when saving a snippet.\n\n= 2.1.6 =\n* New: We added the option to delete all the plugin data on uninstall.\n* Fix: The code of duplicated snippets was sometimes removing some slashes.\n* Fix: Error count was not correctly updated when snippets were trashed or deleted.\n\n= 2.1.5 =\n* New: Priority column added to the list of snippets, order by snippet priority.\n* Fix: Fixed a notice that was being thrown in new sites when running the installation routines.\n* Fix: Filtering by tag or location in the list of snippets was not working correctly.\n\n= 2.1.4.1 =\n* Fix: Avoid notices for errors that don't include the file parameter.\n* Fix: Improve compatibility with PHP 8.2 for the snippet cache class.\n\n= 2.1.4 =\n* New: Enhanced error tracking: Errors generated by PHP snippets on your website will be displayed within the snippet's context, simplifying the debugging process.\n* New: We've refined the snippet auto-deactivation process. Now, only snippets that produce fatal errors in the admin section will be deactivated. All other errors will be reported through the newly implemented error tracker.\n* New: We introduced three new columns to the snippet list: ID, Code Type, and Shortcode.\n* Tweak: We've enhanced our file caching mechanism to prevent redundant requests in scenarios where files aren't written properly due to certain setups.\n* Tweak: We've implemented an additional check to ensure that closing PHP tags don't disrupt the execution of snippets.\n* Fix: We've corrected the sorting of snippets when arranged by their last updated date.\n\n= 2.1.3.1 =\n* Fix: Shortcode attributes were not being correctly parsed in some scenarios.\n\n= 2.1.3 =\n* New: We improved how we manage automatic snippet disabling when errors occur. You'll now get detailed insights into which snippet is responsible for the error and the exact line where the problem occurred.\n* Tweak: We adjusted the way snippets are preloaded to improve compatibility with object cache.\n* Fix: The snippets added as shortcodes were not correctly displayed in the admin bar.\n\n= 2.1.2 =\n* Tweak: We adjusted the way snippets are tracked in the Admin Bar Code Spotter to avoid wrong numbers in certain locations.\n* Tweak: We improved the way the Admin Bar Code Spotter menu is loaded for better compatibility with other plugins and older themes.\n* Tweak: Changed the way assets used by the admin bar are loaded to avoid errors if the head is loaded multiple times.\n\n= 2.1.1 =\n* New: Easily duplicate a snippet with all of its settings with the new Duplicate link in the list of snippets.\n* Fix: Taxonomy page conditional logic was not being correctly assigned for category and tags archives.\n* Tweak: Adjust admin bar markup to avoid using a heading.\n\n= 2.1.0 =\n* New: See exactly which scripts and snippets are loaded on the current page with the WPCode admin bar info menu.\n* Tweak: Minor update to connect process.\n","meta":{"last_version":"2.2.9"},"ip":"107.180.250.162","timestamp":"2025-09-09T15:51:46.891154+05:30","curl-command":"curl -X 'GET' -d '' -H 'Accept: */*' -H 'Accept-Language: en' -H 'User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux i686) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/135.0.0.0 Safari/537.36' 'https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/insert-headers-and-footers/readme.txt'","matcher-status":true}
{"template":"http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/jetpack.yaml","template-url":"https://cloud.projectdiscovery.io/public/wordpress-jetpack","template-id":"wordpress-jetpack","template-path":"/Users/ayushi/nuclei-templates/http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/jetpack.yaml","info":{"name":"Jetpack – WP Security, Backup, Speed, \u0026 Growth Detection","author":["ricardomaia"],"tags":["tech","wordpress","wp-plugin","top-100","top-200"],"reference":["https://wordpress.org/plugins/jetpack/"],"severity":"info","metadata":{"plugin_namespace":"jetpack","wpscan":"https://wpscan.com/plugin/jetpack"}},"extractor-name":"detected_version","type":"http","host":"hypertrends.com","port":"443","scheme":"https","url":"https://hypertrends.com","matched-at":"https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/jetpack/readme.txt","extracted-results":["14.9.1"],"request":"GET /wp-content/plugins/jetpack/readme.txt HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: hypertrends.com\r\nUser-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Fedora; Linux i686) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/132.0.0.0 Safari/537.36\r\nAccept: */*\r\nAccept-Language: en\r\nAccept-Encoding: gzip\r\n\r\n","response":"HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r\nConnection: close\r\nTransfer-Encoding: chunked\r\nContent-Security-Policy: default-src * 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval' data: blob:;\r\nContent-Type: text/plain\r\nDate: Tue, 09 Sep 2025 10:21:48 GMT\r\nEtag: W/\"689d9186-8827\"\r\nLast-Modified: Thu, 14 Aug 2025 07:34:30 GMT\r\nReferrer-Policy: no-referrer-when-downgrade\r\nServer: nginx\r\nStrict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000;\r\nVary: Accept-Encoding\r\nX-Content-Type-Options: nosniff\r\nX-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN\r\nX-Rocket-Nginx-Serving-Static: MISS\r\nX-Xss-Protection: 1; mode=block\r\n\r\n=== Jetpack - WP Security, Backup, Speed, \u0026 Growth ===\nContributors: automattic, adamkheckler, adrianmoldovanwp, aduth, akirk, allendav, alternatekev, andy, annamcphee, annezazu, apeatling, arcangelini, arsihasi, azaozz, barry, batmoo, beaulebens, bindlegirl, biskobe, bjorsch, blobaugh, brbrr, brileyhooper, cainm, cena, cfinke, cgastrell, chaselivingston, chellycat, clickysteve, csonnek, danielbachhuber, daniloercoli, davoraltman, delawski, designsimply, dkmyta, dllh, drawmyface, dsmart, dun2mis, dzver, ebinnion, egregor, eliorivero, enej, eoigal, erania-pinnera, ethitter, fgiannar, gcorne, georgestephanis, gibrown, goldsounds, hew, hugobaeta, hypertextranch, iammattthomas, iandunn, joen, jblz, jeffgolenski, jeherve, jenhooks, jenia, jessefriedman, jgs, jkudish, jmdodd, joanrho, johnjamesjacoby, jshreve, kbrownkd, keoshi, koke, kraftbj, lancewillett, leogermani, lhkowalski, lschuyler, macmanx, martinremy, matt, mattwiebe, matveb, maverick3x6, mcsf, mdawaffe, mdbitz, MichaelArestad, migueluy, miguelxavierpenha, mikeyarce, mkaz, nancythanki, nickmomrik, njweller, nunyvega, obenland, oskosk, pento, professor44, rachelsquirrel, rdcoll, renatoagds, retrofox, richardmtl, richardmuscat, robertbpugh, roccotripaldi, ryancowles, samhotchkiss, samiff, scarstocea, scottsweb, sdixon194, sdquirk, sermitr, simison, stephdau, thehenridev, tmoorewp, tyxla, Viper007Bond, westi, williamvianas, wpkaren, yoavf, zinigor\nTags: Security, backup, malware, scan, performance\nStable tag: 14.9.1\nRequires at least: 6.7\nRequires PHP: 7.2\nTested up to: 6.8\nLicense: GPLv2 or later\nLicense URI: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html\n\nImprove your WP security with powerful one-click tools like backup, WAF, and malware scan. Includes free tools like stats, CDN and social sharing.\n\n== Description ==\n\n### JETPACK - THE BEST WORDPRESS PLUGIN ###\n\nhttps://videopress.com/v/bEKlywPj\n\nJetpack is a WordPress plugin that helps you create better content, grow your subscribers, earn money from your website and keep it safe, fast, and secure. You can grow and keep track of your website traffic with Jetpack stats, and create better content with Jetpack AI. You can start a newsletter and grow your audience, turning fans into paying subscribers. Create beautiful content with Jetpack Creator and keep your site fast with Jetpack Boost.\n\n= HOW TO GET STARTED WITH JETPACK =\nInstallation is free, quick, and easy. [Set up Jetpack](https://jetpack.com/install?from=wporg) in minutes. Take advantage of more robust features like WordPress site security and design and growth tools by [upgrading to a paid plan](http://jetpack.com/pricing).\n\n= NEED EXPERT SUPPORT? =\nWe have a global team of Happiness Engineers ready to provide incredible support. Ask your questions in the support forum or [contact support](https://jetpack.com/contact-support).\n\n### WHY USE JETPACK ON YOUR SITE ###\n\n= Safer. Faster. More traffic. =\n\nWordPress security, performance, marketing, and design tools — Jetpack is made by WordPress experts to make WP sites safer and faster, and help you grow your traffic.\n\n= 24/7 AUTO SITE SECURITY =\nWe guard your site so you can run your site or business. Jetpack Security provides easy-to-use, comprehensive WordPress site security including auto real-time backups and easy restores, malware scans, and spam protection. Essential features like brute force protection and basic downtime / uptime monitoring are free.\n\n* Back up your site automatically in real time and restore to any point with one click. Cloud storage starts at 10GB, which is more than enough for most sites, with additional storage options available if needed. Great for eCommerce stores especially Woo.\n* Manage migration to a new host, migrate theme files and plugins to a new database, easily duplicate websites, create full database backups, clone websites, repair broken websites by restoring older backups or easily set up a test site by creating a duplicate of your existing WP website.\n* See every site change and who made it with the activity log, great for coordination, debug, maintenance, or troubleshooting.\n* Examine incoming traffic to your WordPress site with our WAF (Web Application Firewall) and decide to allow or block it based on various rules.\n* Add an important layer of protection to your site with our WAF (Web Application Firewall), particularly when attackers actively exploit unpatched vulnerabilities.\n* Automatically perform malware scans and security scans for other code threats. One click fix to restore your site for malware.\n* Block spam comments and form responses with anti spam features powered by Akismet.\n* Brute force attack protection to protect your WordPress login page from attacks.\n* Monitor your site uptime / downtime and get an instant alert of any change by email.\n* Secure WordPress.com powered login used by millions of sites with optional 2FA (two factor authentication) for extra protection.\n* Auto update individual plugins for easy site maintenance and management.\n\nYou can purchase all of Jetpack’s security features in our [Security bundle](https://cloud.jetpack.com/pricing#jetpack_security_t1_yearly), or [VaultPress Backup](https://cloud.jetpack.com/pricing#jetpack_backup_t1_yearly), [Scan](https://cloud.jetpack.com/pricing#jetpack_scan), and [Akismet Anti-spam](https://cloud.jetpack.com/pricing#jetpack_anti_spam) can each be purchased individually.\n\n= PEAK SPEED AND PERFORMANCE =\nGet blazing fast site speed with Jetpack. Jetpack’s free CDN (content delivery network) auto optimizes your images. Watch your page load times decrease — we’ll optimize your images and serve them from our own powerful global network, and speed up your site on mobile devices to reduce bandwidth usage and save money!\n\n* Image CDN for images and core static files, like CSS and JavaScript, served from our servers, not yours, which saves you money and bandwidth.\n* Unlimited, high speed, ad free video hosting keeps the focus on your content, not on ads or recommendations that lead people off site.\n* Custom site search is incredibly powerful and customizable. Helps your visitors instantly find the right content so they read and buy more. Works great with WooCommerce / eCommerce sites to help filter products so customers get what they want on your site faster.\n* Recommended to use with [Jetpack Boost](https://wordpress.org/plugins/jetpack-boost/) for ultimate WordPress site speed.\n\n= POWERFUL TOOLS FOR GROWTH =\nCreate and customize your WordPress site, optimize it for visitors and revenue, and enjoy watching your stats tick up. Build it, share it, and watch it grow.\n\n* Auto publish blog posts and products to social media by simply using our tools to connect to Facebook, Bluesky, Threads, Tumblr, Mastodon, LinkedIn, and Nextdoor.\n* Easily share Instagram posts on your pages and blog posts.\n* Collect a payment or donation, sell a product, service, or membership with simple integrations with PayPal and Stripe.\n* Grow traffic with SEO tools for Google, Bing, Facebook, and WordPress.com. XML sitemap created automatically.\n* Advertise on your site to generate revenue. The ad network automatically does the work for you to find high-quality ads that are placed on your site.\n* Manage Jetpack features from anywhere with the official WordPress mobile app, available for Apple iOS (iPhone or iPad) and Google Android.\n* Looking for Customer Relationship Management? Check out the [Jetpack CRM plugin](https://jetpackcrm.com) which works alongside Jetpack to give you a simple and practical way to build relationships with your customers and leads.\n\n= POWERFUL STATS TO GROW YOUR SITE =\nWith Jetpack Stats, you don’t need to be a data scientist to see how your site is performing.\n\n* Advanced site stats and analytics to help you understand your audience.\n* Discover your top performing posts \u0026 pages.\n* See who is creating the most popular content on your team with our author metrics.\n* Easily keep track of your content creation habits \u0026 trends over the years.\n* View weekly and yearly trends with 7-day Highlights and Year in Review.\n* See what popular social networks your content is being shared to the most.\n* Explore real-time data on visitors, likes, and comments.\n* Get detailed insights on the referrers that bring traffic to your site.\n* Discover what countries your visitors are coming from.\n* Measure link clicks, video plays, and file downloads within your site.\n\n= WRITE SMARTER, NOT HARDER. =\nExperience the ease of crafting professional content with intuitive and powerful AI. Jetpack AI Assistant effortlessly integrates with your WordPress editor, offering an intuitive interface to interact with AI.\nThis powerful block lets you generate diverse content at your command, significantly reducing the time and effort required in content creation.\n\nSimply provide a prompt, and watch as Jetpack AI Assistant crafts compelling blog posts, detailed pages, structured lists, and comprehensive tables - all tailored to your needs.\n\n* Harness AI power directly from your editor.\n* Unlock high-quality, tailored content at your command.\n* Maintain professional standards with ease.\n* AI-powered translations across numerous languages at your fingertips, breaking down language barriers.\n\n= PROMOTE YOUR CONTENT EASILY WITH JETPACK BLAZE =\nFind new fans by promoting your posts and pages across millions of sites in the WordPress.com and Tumblr ad network.\n\n* Create your ad. Choose your audience. Set your budget. It's that easy.\n* Amplify your reach for just a few dollars.\n\n\n= EASY DESIGN TOOLS =\nQuickly customize your site to make it stand out — no coding needed.\n\n* Themes — Simple WordPress themes to get started on your site.\n* Related posts — Keep visitors on your site by automatically showing them related content they will be interested in.\n* Gallery and Slideshow tools — Image galleries, carousel slider, and slideshows for WP sites and stores.\n* Subscriptions — Make it easy for visitors to sign up to receive notifications of your latest posts and comments.\n* Contact form — Easily build unlimited contact forms for free without any coding. Receive email notifications for each response. Integrate with mail solutions like Creative Mail to reach your customers and leads quickly. Connect to Jetpack Anti spam (powered by Akismet) to filter submissions.\n* oEmbed Support — easily embed images, posts, and links from Facebook and Instagram.\n\n= INTEGRATIONS =\nJetpack is updated monthly to ensure seamless integration with top WordPress plugins and other tech products.\n\n* Built for WooCommerce: Jetpack and WooCommerce are both made by Automattic. Backup, Scan, Anti-spam, integrate perfectly for Woo / eComm stores.\n* Jetpack is fully compatible with v2.0 of the official AMP plugin for WordPress.\n* Better understand your customers and marketing with Google Analytics (GA) integration.\n* Social media platforms: Instagram, Facebook, Tumblr, LinkedIn, Threads, Bluesky, Nextdoor.\n* Simple Blocks to customize your site: Pinterest, Whatsapp, Podcast player, GIFs, maps, tiled gallery, slideshow.\n* Payment processors: easily collect payments or donations and sell products through Stripe and PayPal.\n* Site speed and performance plugins: Works great with WP Super Cache by Automattic and Cloudflare.\n* Contact form: Anti-spam (Powered by Akismet) blocks spam comments for Jetpack forms, Contact Form 7, Ninja Forms, Gravity Forms, Formidable Forms, and more.\n* Other tech integrations: Instagram, Creative Mail, Mailchimp, Calendly, Whatsapp, Pinterest, Revue, and more.\n\n= EXPLORE MORE OF JETPACK =\nIf you like Jetpack, consider checking out our other products and bundles\n\n* [Jetpack Complete](https://jetpack.com/redirect?source=org-complete) - The Complete bundle with real‑time security, top performance, and everything you need to grow your business.\n* [Jetpack Security](https://jetpack.com/redirect?source=org-security) - Our Security bundle provides easy‑to‑use, comprehensive WordPress site security, including real‑time backups, a web application firewall, malware scanning, and spam protection.\n* [Jetpack Backup](https://jetpack.com/redirect?source=org-backup) - Save every change and get back online quickly with one‑click restores from Jetpack VaultPress Backup.\n* [Jetpack Scan](https://jetpack.com/redirect?source=org-scan) - Protect your site from bad actors around‑the‑clock ‑ with our web application firewall (WAF) and automated malware scanning with one‑click fixes.\n* [Jetpack Search](https://jetpack.com/redirect?source=org-search) - Instantly deliver the most relevant results to your visitors with Jetpack Search. No coding required, no ads, and no tracking.\n* [Jetpack Boost](https://jetpack.com/redirect?source=org-boost) - Increase your website speed.  Enjoy the same performance advantages as the world’s leading websites, no developer required.\n* [Jetpack VideoPress](https://jetpack.com/redirect?source=org-video) - Display stunning‑quality video with none of the hassle. Drag and drop videos through the WordPress editor and keep the focus on your content, not the ads.\n* [Jetpack AI](https://jetpack.com/redirect?source=org-ai) - Turn your ideas into ready‑to‑publish content at lightspeed.\n* [Jetpack Stats](https://jetpack.com/redirect?source=org-stats) - Keep track of your website visits, popular posts, newsletter subscribers and more.\n* [Jetpack Social](https://jetpack.com/redirect?source=org-social) - Automatically share your website content to your favorite social media platforms, from one place.\n* [Jetpack CRM](https://jetpack.com/redirect?source=org-crm) - Jetpack CRM has all of the tools you need to grow your business. It’s also modular, so you can customize it to suit your needs.\n* [Jetpack Creator](https://jetpack.com/redirect?source=org-creator) - Craft stunning content, boost your subscriber base, and monetize your online presence.\n* [Jetpack  Newsletter](https://jetpack.com/redirect?source=org-newsletter) - Transform your blog posts into newsletters to easily reach your subscribers. Offer paid subscriptions and earn from your content.\n\n= KEEP SPAM OFF YOUR WEBSITE =\n* [Akismet Anti-spam](https://jetpack.com/redirect?source=org-spam) - Automatically clear spam from comments and forms. Save time, get more responses, give your visitors a better experience - all without lifting a finger.\n\n= PROMOTE YOUR CONTENT FOR MORE VIEWS =\n* [Blaze](https://jetpack.com/redirect?source=org-blaze) - Find new fans by promoting your posts and pages across millions of sites in the WordPress.com and Tumblr ad network.\n\n= MANAGE MORE THAN ONE SITE? =\n* [Jetpack Manage](https://jetpack.com/manage/) - All the tools you need to manage multiple WordPress sites. Monitor site security, performance, and traffic, and get alerted if a site needs attention.\n\n= FLY HIGHER WITH INDIVIDUAL PLUGINS =\nEver wish you could have just one feature of Jetpack in its own plugin? Now you can. Check out our individual plugins and install only what you need.\n\n* [Jetpack VaultPress Backup](https://wordpress.org/plugins/jetpack-backup/)\n* [Jetpack Boost](https://wordpress.org/plugins/jetpack-boost/)\n* [Jetpack CRM](https://wordpress.org/plugins/zero-bs-crm/)\n* [Jetpack Protect](https://wordpress.org/plugins/jetpack-protect/)\n* [Jetpack Search](https://wordpress.org/plugins/jetpack-search/)\n* [Jetpack Social](https://wordpress.org/plugins/jetpack-social/)\n* [Jetpack VideoPress](https://wordpress.org/plugins/jetpack-videopress/)\n* [Akismet Anti-Spam](https://wordpress.org/plugins/akismet/)\n\n\n== Installation ==\n\n= Automated Installation =\n\nInstallation is free, quick, and easy. [Set up Jetpack](https://jetpack.com/install?from=wporg) in minutes.\n\n= Manual Alternatives =\n\nAlternatively, install Jetpack via the plugin directory, or upload the files manually to your server and follow the on-screen instructions. If you need additional help read [our detailed instructions](https://jetpack.com/support/installing-jetpack/).\n\n== Frequently Asked Questions ==\n\n= Is Jetpack free? =\n\nYes! Jetpack's core features are free for non-commercial sites.\n\nThese include: site stats, a high-speed CDN for images, related posts, downtime monitoring, brute force attack protection, automated sharing to social networks, sidebar customization, SEO (search engine optimization) tools, and much more.\n\n= Should I purchase a paid plan? =\n\nIt depends on your site and what kind of protection, performance, and design you need. If you make money from your site, the answer is “yes.” For context, Jetpack's paid services include real-time backups, security scanning, spam filtering, video hosting, site monetization, search, priority support, and more.\n\nTo learn more about the essential security and WordPress services we provide and see how we can improve your site, visit [our plans page](https://jetpack.com/pricing?from=wporg).\n\n= Why do I need a WordPress.com account? =\n\nSince Jetpack and its services are provided and hosted by WordPress.com, a WordPress.com account is required for Jetpack to function.\n\n= I already have a WordPress account, but Jetpack isn't working. What's going on? =\n\nA WordPress.com account is different from the account you use to log into your self-hosted WordPress. If you can log into WordPress.com, then you already have a WordPress.com account. If you can’t, you can easily create one[during installation](https://jetpack.com/install?from=wporg).\n\n= How do I view my stats? =\n\nOnce you’ve installed Jetpack, your stats will be available on your Jetpack dashboard and through the [official WordPress mobile app](https://apps.wordpress.com/mobile/).\n\n= How do I contribute to Jetpack? =\n\nThere are opportunities for developers at all levels to contribute. [Learn more about contributing to Jetpack](https://jetpack.com/contribute) or consider [joining our beta program](https://jetpack.com/beta).\n\n= What else does Jetpack include? =\n\nJetpack is the ultimate toolkit for WP for both the classic editor and the block editor, giving you everything you need for a professional site. It includes the following features:\n\n* Activity log — Monitor all site changes for debug, troubleshooting, or maintenance\n* Ads — Earn income by displaying high quality ads on your site.\n* Beautiful Math — Use the LaTeX markup language for writing complex mathematical equations, formulas, and more.\n* Carousel slider — Display a gorgeous full-screen photo browsing experience with comments and EXIF metadata.\n* CDN — Helps your pages load faster by allowing Jetpack to optimize your images and serve your images and static files (like CSS and JavaScript) from our global network of servers.\n* Comments — Replace your default comment form with an improved system with integrated social media login options.\n* Comment Likes — Allows readers to like other comments to show their agreement, approval, or appreciation.\n* Contact Form — Offer your readers the ability to get in touch, without giving out your personal email address.\n* Custom CSS — Customize the appearance of your theme without creating a child theme or worrying about updates overwriting your customizations.\n* Custom Content Types — Adds custom post types (CPTs) to your site.\n* Downtime Monitor — Alerts you via electronic mail if your site goes down to ensure you keep uptime.\n* Extra Sidebar Widgets — Extra widgets you can add to your blog, including RSS Links and Facebook Like Boxes.\n* Gravatar Hovercards — Make your Gravatar profile visible to those viewing your blog.\n* Google Analytics (GA) — Track your WordPress site statistics thanks to Google Analytics.\n* Infinite Scroll — Pulls the next posts automatically into view when the reader approaches the bottom of the page.\n* JSON API — Authorizes applications and services to securely connect to your blog, and allows them to use your content or offer you new functionality.\n* Likes — Allows readers to show their appreciation for your posts with a single click.\n* Markdown — Allows you to compose posts and comments with links, lists, and other styles using regular characters and punctuation marks. Markdown is used by writers and bloggers who want a quick and easy way to write rich text without having to take their hands off the keyboard.\n* Malware detection - automatic malware scans that help protect your WP website with an automated resolution.\n* Notifications — Receive notifications for new comments and Likes in your admin bar and on your mobile device.\n* oEmbed Support — easily embed images, posts, and links from Facebook and Instagram.\n* Plugin Management — Allows easy site maintenance by choosing which plugins update automatically.\n* Post by Email — Publish posts using any mail client.\n* Protect — Protect your site from traditional and distributed brute force login attacks.\n* Publicize — Share new posts on social media networks automatically, or schedule future shares with custom messages.\n* Related Posts  — Show contextual posts your visitors might be interested in reading after they’re done with their current post.\n* Secure Auth —  Secure WordPress.com powered login used by millions of sites with optional 2FA (two factor authentication) for extra protection.\n* Security Scanner — Anti-virus and other threat detection for your WordPress site with automated resolution.\n* Search — A powerful replacement for WordPress’ built-in search, powered by Elasticsearch in the WordPress.com cloud\n* SEO Tools — Optimize your site for search engines by taking advantage of our SEO tools.\n* Sharing — Adds sharing buttons to your blog posts so readers can easily share your content.\n* Shortcode Embeds — Embed videos from YouTube and other media across the web.\n* Site Backup — Automatically back up your entire site. Duplicate, clone, migrate, transfer to a new host, and easily restore. Previously known as VaultPress.\n* Site Stats — View site visits by date, as well as most popular Pages and Posts.\n* Site Verification — Verify your site for use with Google, Bing, and Pinterest and their tools.\n* Sitemap — Generate a list of pages to be indexed by search engines like Google or Bing.\n* Spam Filtering — Automatically filter out spam comments, product reviews, or contact form submissions.\n* Subscriptions — Allow visitors to receive notifications of your latest posts or comments.\n* Tiled Galleries — Display your image galleries in three different styles: a rectangular mosaic, a square mosaic, and a circular grid.\n* Video Hosting  — Upload videos for fast, reliable hosting on WordPress.com.\n* WP.me Shortlinks — Generate short and simple links to your content using the wp.me domain.\n* Widget Visibility — Configure widgets to appear only on specific pages.\n* WordPress.com Toolbar — The WordPress.com Toolbar feature replaces the default admin bar and offers quick links to the Reader, all your sites, your WordPress.com profile, and notifications.\n\n= What Blocks does Jetpack include? =\n\nBlocks are the individual sections that make up a page. There are many block types for you to use. Each block can be edited or moved independently of other blocks. The following is a list of all blocks currently available in Jetpack.\n\n* Ad Block - The Ad block allows you to insert a Jetpack Ad unit anywhere within the content of any post or page.\n* Business Hours Block - The Business Hours block allows you to display your business’s opening hours on your site.\n* Calendly Block - Jetpack's Calendly block allows your visitors to schedule one-on-one appointments, group events, and team meetings directly from your website.\n* Contact Info Block - The Contact Info block lets you add your contact information (email address, physical address, phone number) to any post or page.\n* Donations Block - The Donations block lets you add a payment button to any post or page for a donation, tips, and other contributions, using Stripe as the payment gateway.\n* Eventbrite Block - With the Eventbrite block you can embed events on posts or pages.\n* Form Block - The Form block lets you add a form to your post or page.\n* GIF Block - The GIF block allows you to easily search for and embed an animated GIF image from Giphy directly into a post or page on your WordPress site.\n* Google Calendar Block - The Google Calendar block allows you to easily embed a Google Calendar into your post or page\n* Image Compare Block - The Image Compare Block allows you to display and compare the differences between two images side by side (or above and below) thanks to a slider.\n* Latest Instagram Posts Block - The Latest Instagram Posts Block lets you display your most recent images from Instagram on your site. The block update automatically updates when you post new images to Instagram.\n* Mailchimp Block - The Mailchimp block allows visitors to join your Mailchimp list.\n* Map Block - The Map Block allows you to add a map to any post or page on your site.\n* Markdown Block - With the Markdown block you can create formatted content using only regular characters and some punctuation marks.\n* OpenTable Block - With the OpenTable block, you can add a reservation form on posts or pages.\n* Pay with PayPal Block - Pay with PayPal lets you add a payment button to any post or page, and immediately start taking PayPal payments for physical products, digital goods, or a donation.\n* Payments Block - The Payments Block lets you add a payment button using Stripe as the payment gateway. It works for one-time and recurring payments.\n* Pinterest Block - The Pinterest block is the easiest way to embed Pinterest content to your site: it allows you to embed boards, profiles, and pins.\n* Podcast Player Block - Jetpack's Podcast Player block allows you to easily show your visitors a listing of recent episodes from a podcast and play them on your website.\n* Related Posts Block - The Related Posts feature scans all of your posts' contents, analyzes it, and uses that to display contextual posts your visitors might be interested in reading after they're finished with the current post.\n* Repeat Visitor Block - The Repeat Visitor block enables the author to control the visibility of its nested block(s) depending on how many times a visitor has previously visited the page.\n* Revue Block - The Revue block creates a simple signup form for readers to opt-in to receive your newsletter.\n* Slideshow Block - The Slideshow block lets you insert an image slideshow into a post or page.\n* Star Rating Block - The Ratings block allows any site author to add reviews to the site.\n* Subscription Form Block - The Subscription Form Block allows you to insert a subscription form within the content area of any post or page, enabling your readers to get notifications when you publish new posts.\n* Tiled Gallery Block - With Tiled Galleries you can display your image galleries in four styles: tiled mosaic, circular grid, square tiles, and tiled columns.\n* Video Block - The Video block enhances the existing WordPress Video block and allows you to upload videos from your computer to be hosted on WordPress.com, rather than on your host’s servers.\n* WhatsApp Button Block - The WhatsAPP Button block will allow your customers to send them a message to enquire about their product or services, or ask for support. Clicking on the button will open WhatsApp and pre-fill the phone number and initial message.\n\nJetpack has also created extensions for some WordPress core blocks:\n\n* Social Previews – This extension of the Block Editor allows you to preview what your post / page will look like on search engines and social media.\n\n= Do I need an SSL certificate? =\n\nYou don’t need an SSL Certificate to run Jetpack on your WordPress website. However, it’s recommended to integrate them both into your overall WordPress security strategy. An SSL certificate (Secure Sockets Layer certificate) creates a secure connection between your website and your site visitors’ browsers. It encrypts any data shared on your site — like addresses, emails, phone numbers, and credit card information — and protects that data from hackers.\n\nIf you don’t have an SSL certificate, your site will show a “not secure” warning on users’ browsers, which can reduce your legitimacy in their eyes. SSL certificates also have a positive impact on search engine rankings.\n\nThe process of setting up an SSL certificate will depend on your hosting provider. Some hosts include free certificates, while others charge annually.\n\n= How does Jetpack work with WP Super Cache? =\n\nWP Super Cache works by caching your WordPress pages as static HTML pages so that page requests, for an already cached page, do not need to be processed by the WordPress PHP scripts. Typically, most visitors of your site will view cached versions of the WordPress pages, so your server will have more processing power to serve an increased number of users.\n\nJetpack has an image CDN that works by caching and serving your WordPress images globally from its own servers. These plugins are both maintained by Automattic and work together to give you ultimate site speed.\n\nAutomattic actively develops [Jetpack Boost](https://wordpress.org/plugins/jetpack-boost/) to help you increase your website speed in ways beyond WP Super Cache. We recommend using Jetpack Boost instead of WP Super Cache.\n\n= What version of PHP do I need? =\n\nSites must be built on PHP 7.2 or greater, but Jetpack always supports the latest version of PHP.\n\n= Can Jetpack help my site comply with GDPR? =\n\nOur Cookie and Consent Banner can help you comply with GDPR. The European Union’s ePrivacy Directive (often referred to as the ‘cookie law’) and General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) place requirements on website owners and operators to provide information about, and gain consent for their use of cookies.\n\n= Can Jetpack be used to transfer websites to a new host? =\n\nJetpack Backup can do a full website migration to a new host, migrate theme files and plugins to a new database, create full database backups, clone websites, repair broken websites by restoring older backups and allow you to easily set up a test site by creating a duplicate of your existing website.\n\n\n== Screenshots ==\n\n1. Jetpack Security provides easy-to-use, comprehensive WordPress site security including backups, malware scanning, and spam protection.\n2. Save every change with real-time backups and get back online quickly with one-click restores.\n3. Automated malware scanning and one-click fixes keep your site one step ahead of security threats.\n4. Promote your newest posts, pages, and products across your social media channels.\n5. Incredibly powerful and customizable, help your visitors instantly find the right content – right when they need it.\n6. See what’s working with content performance metrics. Simple, yet powerful stats to grow your site.\n7. Stunning‑quality video with none of the hassle. Drag and drop videos through the WordPress editor and keep the focus on your content, not the ads.\n\n\n== Changelog ==\n### 14.9.1 - 2025-08-06\n#### Bug fixes\n- Open Graph Meta tags: Do not attempt to generate a fallback image when the site is not connected to WordPress.com. [#44661]\n\n### 14.9 - 2025-08-05\n#### Enhancements\n- Add new PayPal Payment block (beta).\n- Forms: Add \"Empty trash\" button.\n- Forms: Add Gravatars in form responses.\n- Forms: Add link to disconnect Google.\n- Forms: Add slider field block.\n- Forms: Add tip that spam will automatically be deleted after 15 days.\n- Forms: Improve email copy-to-clipboard visually and make it less hidden.\n- Forms: Make phone fields clickable\n- Forms: Refresh look of responses in dashboard.\n- Forms: Submit forms without page reload.\n- Forms: Update integration links.\n- Forms: Update the date picker to remove jQuery and add a more performant version with keyboard navigation.\n- Forms: Use sentence case in default consent text.\n- My Jetpack: Enable access to My Jetpack on WP Multisite.\n- My Jetpack: Unify the user connection flow with a unified screen.\n- Open Graph Meta tags: Add a new fallback image to display on the home page.\n- Open Graph meta tags: Support site logos when generating fallback Image Meta tags.\n- Performance: Improve processing of blocks with the Blogging Prompt feature.\n- Podcast player block: Improve page load performance by removing use of `lodash`.\n- Sitemap: Reduce memory usage when generating sitemaps.\n- Social: Improve performance when sanitizing OpenGraph tags.\n- Social: Improve performance when selecting images for OpenGraph tags.\n- Story block: Improve page load performance by removing use of `lodash`.\n- Subscriptions: Improve performance of the legacy Subscriptions widget.\n- Update PayPal Payment Buttons block to support rendering previews.\n- Use the `view_stats` cap for the Jetpack Stats menu item instead of `manage_options`.\n- Widget Conditions Module: Improve performance of block processing during conditional checking.\n- WooCommerce Analytics Module: Improve performance of block processing during Analytics gathering.\n\n#### Improved compatibility\n- Blocks: Prevent PHP errors when `jetpack_set_available_extensions` filter returns an unexpected data type.\n- Sync: Ignore the ActivityPub Outbox CPT.\n\n#### Bug fixes\n- Accessibility: Remove deprecated `clip` property from screen reader text with `clip-path`.\n- Blocks: Return an error when a filter returns a non-array.\n- Carousel: Fix disabling all photon args when opening an image in a lightbox.\n- Clear PayPal Payment button block parameters when changing block type.\n- Dashboard: Use UTC for Jetpack Stats chart.\n- Forms: Enqueue view script only when the form is rendered.\n- Forms: Fix padding on input and textarea fields.\n- Forms: Fix the way forms are submitted.\n- Forms: Fix the way forms are submitted.\n- JITM: Remove jQuery dependency.\n- Mailchimp block: Fix links to accommodate for a bug in Gutenberg.\n- My Jetpack: Fix footer alignment for disconnected accounts.\n- My Jetpack: Prevent expiration alerts for products covered by active bundles.\n- My Jetpack: Restore plan purchase link.\n- Newsletter: Fix bug in category settings.\n- Related Posts: Ensure results are available via REST API directly.\n- Sharing: Display correct Open Graph meta tags when a page uses a Query Loop block.\n- Social: Fix image validation when images sizes are customised.\n- Social Image Generator: Do not use the latest post's Social Image as Open Graph Image tag on the home page.\n- Subscriptions: Avoid enqueuing the legacy widget's stylesheet in block-based themes.\n- Subscriptions: Display floating subscription button on mobile devices as well when enabled.\n- VideoPress: Fix video row action button clickability by properly hiding stats on hover.\n\n--------\n\n[See the previous changelogs here](https://github.com/Automattic/jetpack/blob/trunk/projects/plugins/jetpack/CHANGELOG.md#changelog)\n","meta":{"last_version":"14.8"},"ip":"107.180.250.162","timestamp":"2025-09-09T15:51:48.833461+05:30","curl-command":"curl -X 'GET' -d '' -H 'Accept: */*' -H 'Accept-Language: en' -H 'User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Fedora; Linux i686) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/132.0.0.0 Safari/537.36' 'https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/jetpack/readme.txt'","matcher-status":true}
{"template":"http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/mailchimp-for-wp.yaml","template-url":"https://cloud.projectdiscovery.io/public/wordpress-mailchimp-for-wp","template-id":"wordpress-mailchimp-for-wp","template-path":"/Users/ayushi/nuclei-templates/http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/mailchimp-for-wp.yaml","info":{"name":"MC4WP' Mailchimp for WordPress Detection","author":["ricardomaia"],"tags":["tech","wordpress","wp-plugin","top-100","top-200"],"reference":["https://wordpress.org/plugins/mailchimp-for-wp/"],"severity":"info","metadata":{"wpscan":"https://wpscan.com/plugin/mailchimp-for-wp","plugin_namespace":"mailchimp-for-wp"}},"extractor-name":"detected_version","type":"http","host":"hypertrends.com","port":"443","scheme":"https","url":"https://hypertrends.com","matched-at":"https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/mailchimp-for-wp/readme.txt","extracted-results":["4.10.6"],"request":"GET /wp-content/plugins/mailchimp-for-wp/readme.txt HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: hypertrends.com\r\nUser-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Debian; Linux i686; rv:125.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/125.0\r\nAccept: */*\r\nAccept-Language: en\r\nAccept-Encoding: gzip\r\n\r\n","response":"HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r\nConnection: close\r\nTransfer-Encoding: chunked\r\nContent-Security-Policy: default-src * 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval' data: blob:;\r\nContent-Type: text/plain\r\nDate: Tue, 09 Sep 2025 10:21:51 GMT\r\nEtag: W/\"68919aa8-a2d4\"\r\nLast-Modified: Tue, 05 Aug 2025 05:46:16 GMT\r\nReferrer-Policy: no-referrer-when-downgrade\r\nServer: nginx\r\nStrict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000;\r\nVary: Accept-Encoding\r\nX-Content-Type-Options: nosniff\r\nX-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN\r\nX-Rocket-Nginx-Serving-Static: MISS\r\nX-Xss-Protection: 1; mode=block\r\n\r\n=== MC4WP: Mailchimp for WordPress ===\r\nContributors: Ibericode, DvanKooten, hchouhan, lapzor\r\nDonate link: https://www.mc4wp.com/contribute/#utm_source=wp-plugin-repo\u0026utm_medium=mailchimp-for-wp\u0026utm_campaign=donate-link\r\nTags: mailchimp, subscribe, email, newsletter, form\r\nRequires at least: 4.6\r\nTested up to: 6.8\r\nStable tag: 4.10.6\nLicense: GPL-3.0-or-later\r\nLicense URI: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html\r\nRequires PHP: 7.4\r\n\r\nThe #1 Mailchimp plugin for WordPress. Allows you to add a multitude of newsletter sign-up methods to your site.\r\n\r\n== Description ==\r\n\r\n*Allowing your visitors to subscribe to your newsletter should be easy. With this plugin, it finally is.*\r\n\r\nThis plugins helps you grow your email list in Mailchimp. You can use it to create good looking and accessible sign-up forms or integrate with any other existing form on your WordPress site, like your contact, comment or checkout form.\r\n\r\n[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fZCYPnFybqU]\r\n\r\n#### Some (but not all) features\r\n\r\n- Connect with your Mailchimp account in seconds.\r\n\r\n- Sign-up forms which are good looking, user-friendly and mobile optimized. You have complete control over the form fields and can build your forms using native HTML.\r\n\r\n- Seamless integration with the following plugins:\r\n  - WordPress Comment Form\r\n  - WordPress Registration Form\r\n  - Contact Form 7\r\n  - WooCommerce\r\n  - Gravity Forms\r\n  - Ninja Forms 3\r\n  - WPForms\r\n  - BuddyPress\r\n  - MemberPress\r\n  - Events Manager\r\n  - Easy Digital Downloads\r\n  - Give\r\n  - UltimateMember\r\n  - HTML Forms\r\n  - AffiliateWP\r\n\r\n- Is the plugin you want to integrate with not listed above? You can probably still use our [custom integration](https://www.mc4wp.com/kb/subscribe-mailchimp-custom-html-form/) feature. Alternatively, the plugin comes with a PHP API to programmatically add a new subscriber to Mailchimp.\r\n\r\n- [Mailchimp for WordPress Premium](https://www.mc4wp.com/): Send your WooCommerce orders to Mailchimp so you can see exactly what each subscriber purchased and how much revenue your email campaigns are generating.\r\n\r\n- A multitude of available add-on plugins and integrations:\r\n  - [Mailchimp for WordPress Premium](https://www.mc4wp.com/)\r\n  - [Mailchimp Top Bar](https://wordpress.org/plugins/mailchimp-top-bar/)\r\n  - [Boxzilla Pop-ups](https://wordpress.org/plugins/boxzilla/)\r\n\r\n- Well documented through our [knowledge base](https://www.mc4wp.com/kb/).\r\n\r\n- Developer friendly. For some inspiration, check out our [repository of example code snippets](https://github.com/ibericode/mailchimp-for-wordpress/tree/main/sample-code-snippets).\r\n\r\n- Ready for PHP 8.4, but backwards-compatible all the way down to PHP 7.4.\r\n\r\n#### What is Mailchimp?\r\n\r\nMailchimp is a newsletter service that allows you to send out email campaigns to a list of email subscribers. It is free for lists with up to 500 email subscribers, which is why it is the newsletter-service of choice for thousands of small businesses across the globe.\r\n\r\nIf you are not yet using Mailchimp, [creating an account is 100% free and only takes you about 30 seconds](http://eepurl.com/igOGeX).\r\n\r\n== Installation ==\r\n\r\n#### Installing the plugin\r\n1. In your WordPress admin panel, go to *Plugins \u003e New Plugin*, search for **Mailchimp for WordPress** and click \"*Install now*\"\r\n1. Alternatively, download the plugin and upload the contents of `mailchimp-for-wp.zip` to your plugins directory, which usually is `/wp-content/plugins/`.\r\n1. Activate the plugin\r\n1. Set [your API key](https://admin.mailchimp.com/account/api) in the plugin settings.\r\n\r\n#### Configuring Sign-Up Form(s)\r\n1. Go to *Mailchimp for WP \u003e Forms*\r\n2. Select at least one list to subscribe people to.\r\n3. *(Optional)* Add more fields to your form.\r\n4. Embed a sign-up form in pages or posts using the `[mc4wp_form]` shortcode or Gutenberg block.\r\n5. Show a sign-up form in your widget areas using the \"Mailchimp Sign-Up Form\" widget.\r\n6. Show a sign-up form from your theme files by using the `mc4wp_show_form()` PHP function.\r\n\r\n#### Need help?\r\nPlease take a look at the [MC4WP knowledge base](https://www.mc4wp.com/kb/#utm_source=wp-plugin-repo\u0026utm_medium=mailchimp-for-wp\u0026utm_campaign=installation-instructions-link) first.\r\n\r\nIf you can't find an answer there, please look through the [plugin support forums](https://wordpress.org/support/plugin/mailchimp-for-wp) or start your own topic.\r\n\r\n== Frequently Asked Questions ==\r\n\r\n#### Where can I find my Mailchimp API key?\r\nYou can [find your API key here](http://kb.mailchimp.com/accounts/management/about-api-keys#Find-or-Generate-Your-API-Key)\r\n\r\n#### How to display a form in posts or pages?\r\nUse the `[mc4wp_form]` shortcode or the Gutenberg block.\r\n\r\n#### How to display a form in widget areas like the sidebar or footer?\r\nGo to **Appearance \u003e Widgets** and use the **Mailchimp for WP Form** widget that comes with the plugin.\r\n\r\n#### How to add a sign-up checkbox to my Contact Form 7 form?\r\nUse the following shortcode in your CF7 form to display a newsletter sign-up checkbox.\r\n\r\n`\r\n[mc4wp_checkbox \"Subscribe to our newsletter?\"]\r\n`\r\n\r\nOur knowledge base has more information on [connecting Contact Form 7 and Mailchimp](https://www.mc4wp.com/kb/connecting-contact-form-7-and-mailchimp/).\r\n\r\n#### The form shows a success message but subscribers are not added to my list(s)?\r\nIf the form shows a success message, there is no doubt that the sign-up request succeeded. Mailchimp could have a slight delay sending the confirmation email though. Please check again in a few minutes (sometimes hours) and don't forget to check your junk folder too.\r\n\r\nWhen you have double opt-in disabled, new subscribers will be seen as *imports* by Mailchimp. They will not show up in your daily digest emails or statistics. [We always recommend leaving double opt-in enabled](http://blog.mailchimp.com/double-opt-in-vs-single-opt-in-stats/).\r\n\r\n#### How can I style the sign-up form?\r\nYou can use custom CSS to style the sign-up form if you do not like the themes that come with the plugin. The following selectors can be used to target the various form elements.\r\n\r\n`\r\n.mc4wp-form { ... } /* the form element */\r\n.mc4wp-form p { ... } /* form paragraphs */\r\n.mc4wp-form label { ... } /* labels */\r\n.mc4wp-form input { ... } /* input fields */\r\n.mc4wp-form input[type=\"checkbox\"] { ... } /* checkboxes */\r\n.mc4wp-form input[type=\"submit\"] { ... } /* submit button */\r\n.mc4wp-alert { ... } /* success \u0026 error messages */\r\n.mc4wp-success { ... } /* success message */\r\n.mc4wp-error { ... } /* error messages */\r\n`\r\n\r\nYou can add your custom CSS to your theme stylesheet or (easier) by using a plugin like [Simple Custom CSS](https://wordpress.org/plugins/simple-custom-css/#utm_source=wp-plugin-repo\u0026utm_medium=mailchimp-for-wp\u0026utm_campaign=after-css-link)\r\n\r\n#### How do I show a sign-up form in a pop-up?\r\n\r\nWe recommend the [Boxzilla pop-up plugin](https://wordpress.org/plugins/boxzilla/) for this. You can use the form shortcode in your pop-up box to show a sign-up form.\r\n\r\n### How do I subscribe from my WooCommerce checkout form?\r\n\r\nYou can use our WooCommerce integration for that. [How to subscribe to Mailchimp from the WooCommerce checkout form](https://www.mc4wp.com/kb/connect-woocommerce-store-mailchimp/).\r\n\r\n### How to connect my WooCommerce store with Mailchimp?\r\n\r\nYou can find instructions for [connecting your WooCommerce store with Mailchimp](https://www.mc4wp.com/kb/connect-woocommerce-store-mailchimp/) on our website.\r\n\r\n#### I'm getting an \"HTTP Error\" when trying to connect to Mailchimp.\r\n\r\nthe \"HTTP Error\" type is usually because of a firewall configuration issue or outdated software on your web server.\r\n\r\nPlease contact your webhost and ask them to check the following:\r\n\r\n- Whether remote HTTP requests to `https://api.mailchimp.com` are allowed.\r\n- Whether cURL and the PHP-cURL extension are installed and updated to a recent version.\r\n\r\n#### My question is not listed here.\r\n\r\nPlease search through our [knowledge base](https://www.mc4wp.com/kb/#utm_source=wp-plugin-repo\u0026utm_medium=mailchimp-for-wp\u0026utm_campaign=faq).\r\n\r\n\r\n== Other Notes ==\r\n\r\n#### Support\r\n\r\nIf you need some help in setting up the plugin, you have various options:\r\n\r\n- Search through our [knowledge base](https://www.mc4wp.com/kb/#utm_source=wp-plugin-repo\u0026utm_medium=mailchimp-for-wp\u0026utm_campaign=description).\r\n- Open a topic in the [WordPress.org plugin support forums](https://wordpress.org/support/plugin/mailchimp-for-wp)\r\n- If you're a premium user, send an email to the email address listed inside the plugin.\r\n\r\n#### Translations\r\n\r\nYou can [help translate this plugin into your language](https://translate.wordpress.org/projects/wp-plugins/mailchimp-for-wp/stable/) using your WordPress.org account.\r\n\r\n#### Development\r\n\r\nThis plugin is being developed on GitHub. If you want to collaborate, please look at [ibericode/mailchimp-for-wordpress](https://github.com/ibericode/mailchimp-for-wordpress).\r\n\r\n#### Customizing the plugin\r\n\r\nThe plugin provides various filter and action hooks that allow you to modify or extend the default behavior. We're also maintaining a [collection of sample code snippets](https://github.com/ibericode/mailchimp-for-wordpress/tree/main/sample-code-snippets).\r\n\r\n== Screenshots ==\r\n\r\n1. Example sign-up form in the TwentyTwenty theme.\r\n2. Example sign-up integration with a contact form.\r\n3. Settings page to connect with your Mailchimp account.\r\n4. Overview of sign-up integrations.\r\n5. Overview of sign-up forms.\r\n6. Settings page to configure an integration.\r\n7. Page where you edit your sign-up forms.\r\n8. Page where you modify your form messages.\r\n9. Settings page for e-commerce integration with Mailchimp. Requires [Mailchimp for WordPress Premium](https://www.mc4wp.com/).\r\n\r\n== Changelog ==\r\n\n\n#### 4.10.6 - Jul 23, 2025\n\n- [WooCommerce Checkout] Fix checkbox from showing up in order confirmation email if using Checkout Block.\n- [Forms] Fix `{response}` tag being escaped.\n\n\n#### 4.10.5 - Jun 25, 2025\n\n- [Ninja Forms] Always show at least one list option so that onchange event fires properly (to load Audience fields).\n- Update third-party JS dependencies.\n- Optimize SVG icons for reduced file sizes.\n\n\n#### 4.10.4 - May 26, 2025\n\n- Improved context-dependent escaping in dynamic content tags. \n\n\n#### 4.10.3 - Apr 16, 2025\n\n- Update third-party JS dependencies.\n- Add message setting for when a form submission is marked as spam.\n- Log exact anti-spam rule when a form submission is marked as spam.\n- Handle potential Prosopo connection errors gracefully.\n\n\n#### 4.10.2 - Feb 28, 2025\n\n- Fix WPForms parameter type change causing a fatal error if using WPForms with a Mailchimp sign-up field.\n- Add Mailchimp data to Personal Data exporter. Contributed by [David Anderson from UpdraftPlus](https://updraftplus.com/).\n- Prevent PHP notices in lists overview on general settings page.\n\n\n#### 4.10.1 - Feb 06, 2025\n\n- Fix JS error breaking Ninja Forms edit form page when not connected to a Mailchimp account or account has no audiences.\n- Remove `sprintf` usage in hot path.\n- Lazy load `MC4WP_API_V3` class to save some memory and parse time.\n- Save a tiny bit of memory in autoloader implementation by not repeatedly storing plugin directory.\n- Remove unused setting key from default options.\n\n\n#### 4.10.0 - Jan 23, 2025\n\n- Bump required PHP version to 7.4 or higher.\n- Obfuscate API key the same way as in the Mailchimp.com interface.\n- Delete all plugin data when plugin is uninstalled / deleted via WP Admin.\n- Fix several PHP 8.4 deprecation warnings.\n- Address warning about translations being loaded too early if using Ninja Forms integration.\n- Run stored setting values related to user-facing textual messages through i18n functions to allow translating them through plugins like Loco Translate or WPML.\n\n\n#### 4.9.21 - Jan 08, 2025\n\n- [Forms] Rename \"list choice\" to \"audience choice\" in available form fields.\n- [Ninja Forms] Fix gettext being called too early warning in Ninja Forms base class.\n- [WooCommerce] Allow pre-checking of sign-up checkbox in Checkout Block.\n\n\n#### 4.9.20 - Dec 18, 2024\n\n- Fix Ninja Forms integration field no longer showing up.\n- Fix \"link is expired\" message because of missing nonce on button to dismiss API key notice.\n- [WPML] Added text_no_lists_selected to the config file so it can be translated. Thanks [Diego Pereira](https://github.com/diiegopereira)!\n\n\n#### 4.9.19 - Nov 11, 2024\n\n- Add integration with [Prosopo](https://prosopo.io/), a GDPR compliant anti-spam solution for protecting your sign-up forms against bot sign-ups. Thanks [Maxim Akimov](https://github.com/light-source)!\n\n\n#### 4.9.18 - Oct 21, 2024\n\n- Bump required PHP version to 7.2.\n- Prevent non-functional checkbox from showing up on WooCommerce my account page if WooCommerce checkout integration is enabled.\n- Update default form content to include a \"for\" attribute on the label element.\n- Minor performance optimizations to `MC4WP_Form::get_subscriber_tags()`\n- Begrudgingly rename Mailchimp lists to Mailchimp audiences throughout the plugin's admin interfaces.\n\n\n#### 4.9.17 - Sep 17, 2024\n\n- Fix compatibility with WooCommerce versions 8.5 to 8.8 because of private method that was later made public.\n- Fix potential reflected XSS by stripping and escaping all HTML from `{email}` tag replacements. Thanks to kauenavarro for responsibly disclosing.\n- Fix potential stored XSS for attackers with both administrator access and Mailchimp account access by escaping HTML from interest group name. Thanks to Jorge Diaz (ddiax) for responsibly disclosing.\n\n\n#### 4.9.16 - Sep 11, 2024\n\n- Add support for WooCommerce Checkout Block in sign-up checkbox integration.\n\n\n#### 4.9.15 - Aug 13, 2024\n\n- Improved anti-spam measures on the [custom form integration](https://www.mc4wp.com/kb/subscribe-mailchimp-custom-html-form/). If you are using the custom form integration (using the `mc4wp-subscribe` checkbox), please test your forms after upgrading and report any issues to us.\n- Improved anti-spam measures on all sign-up forms.\n- Remove unsupported filter hook from Gravity Forms integration. \n\n\n#### 4.9.14 - Jul 17, 2024\n\n- Very minor code-size improvements to public forms related JavaScript.\n- Update third-party JS dependencies.\n- Bump tested WordPress version to 6.6.\n\n\n#### 4.9.13 - Apr 25, 2024\n\n- Fix issue with Composer classmap throwing a fatal error when an older version of Composer is already loaded.\n\n\n#### 4.9.12 - Apr 22, 2024 \n\n- Fix last 10 Mailchimp lists not being pulled-in when having more than 10 lists.\n\n\n#### 4.9.11 - Jan 8, 2024\n\n- Update third-party JS dependencies.\n- Bump tested WordPress version.\n\n\n#### 4.9.10 - Nov 20, 2023\n\n- Integrations: Update CheckoutWC hook name for WooCommerce checkbox integration.\n- Forms: Don't show form preview to users without `edit_posts` capability.\n- Forms: Explicitly exclude form preview from search engine indexing.\n- General: Don't unnecessarily go through service contrainer while bootstrapping plugin.\n- General: Remove some unnecessary JavaScript now that browser support has caught up.\n\n\n#### 4.9.9 - Oct 3, 2023 \n\n- Fix class \"MC4WP_Usage_Tracking\" not found error for WP Cron / WP CLI processes.\n\n\n#### 4.9.8 - Oct 3, 2023\n\n- Remove the opt-in usage tracking functionality as we're not really using it for decision making anymore.\n- Add missing label element to the select element for setting the logging level.\n- Our JavaScript assets are now transpiled to support the same set of browsers as WordPress core. \nThis drops support for some very old browsers, but results in smaller bundle sizes for the supported set of browsers.\n- Update third-party JS dependencies to their latest versions.\n\n\n#### 4.9.7 - Aug 29, 2023\n\n- Update third-party JS dependencies.\n- Minor textual improvements.\n- Bump tested WordPress version.\n\n\n#### 4.9.6 - Jul 12, 2023\n\n- Update third-party JS dependencies.\n- Address some minor codestyle issues.\n\n\n#### 4.9.5 - Jun 7, 2023\n\n- Fix generated HTML for list/audience choice fields.\n- Fix deprecation warning in includes/admin/class-review-notice.php.\n- Update JavaScript dependencies.\n\n\n#### 4.9.4 - May 2, 2023\n\n- Fallback to default checkbox label if none given. Thanks to [Shojib Khan](https://github.com/kshojib).\n- Improve WooCommerce integration settings page by disabling position field if integration is disabled. Thanks to [Shojib Khan](https://github.com/kshojib).\n- Update JavaScript dependencies.\n\n\n#### 4.9.3 - Mar 31, 2023\n\n- Defend against breaking change in latest WPForms update.\n\n\n#### 4.9.2 - Mar 21, 2023\n\n- Add support for a field named `MARKETING_PERMISSIONS` to enable GDPR fields configured in Mailchimp. A [sample code snippet can be found here](https://github.com/ibericode/mailchimp-for-wordpress/blob/main/sample-code-snippets/forms/gdpr-marketing-permissions.md).\n- Remove Google reCaptcha feature. This was already disabled if you were not already using it.\n\n\n#### 4.9.1 - Feb 7, 2023\n\n- Fix generated value attribute for fields of type choice (dropdown, checkboxes, radio fields).\n- Fix type of `marketing_permissions` field in API requests. Thanks to [George Korakas](https://github.com/gkorakas-eli).\n- Refactor list overview JS to not depend on Mithril.js anymore.\n- Simplify admin footer text asking for a plugin review.\n- When renewing lists, renew cached marketing permissions too.\n\n\n#### 4.9.0 - Jan 13, 2023 \n\n- Removed deprecated filter hook `mc4wp_settings_cap`, use `mc4wp_admin_required_capability` instead.\n- Removed deprecated filter hook `mc4wp_merge_vars`, use `mc4wp_form_data` or `mc4wp_integration_data` instead.\n- Removed deprecated filter hook `mc4wp_form_merge_vars`, use `mc4wp_form_data` instead.\n- Removed deprecated filter hook `mc4wp_integration_merge_vars`, use `mc4wp_integration_data` instead.\n- Removed deprecated filter hook `mc4wp_valid_form_request`, use `mc4wp_form_errors` instead.\n- Removed deprecated function `mc4wp_get_api()` and deprecated class `MC4WP_API`.\n- Removed deprecated function `mc4wp_checkbox()`.\n- Removed deprecated function `mc4wp_form()`, use `mc4wp_show_form()` instead.\n- Added filter `mc4wp_debug_log_message` to modify or disable messages that are written to the debug log.\n- Fix color of invalid Mailchimp API key notice.\n- Sanitize IP address value from `$_SERVER['REMOTE_ADDR']` too.\n- Fetch GDPR marketing permissions via first subscriber on list and show them in lists overview table.\n\n\n#### 4.8.12 - Dec 06, 2022\n\n- Minor performance, memory usage \u0026 size optimizations for all JavaScript code bundled with this plugin.\n\n\n#### 4.8.11 - Nov 1, 2022\n\n- Improved default styling for the WooCommerce sign-up checkbox integration.\n- Add `\u003cstrong\u003e` to allowed HTML elements for GDPR disclaimer text on settings pages.\n- Remove all references to obsolete placeholders.js polyfill.\n- Move the GiveWP sign-up checkbox closer to the email input field. Thanks [Matthew Lewis](https://github.com/Matthew-Lewis).\n\n\n#### 4.8.10 - Sep 14, 2022\n\n- Fix mc4wp_get_request_ip_address() to return an IP address that matches Mailchimp's validation format when X-Forwarded-For header contains a port component.\n\n\n#### 4.8.8 - Aug 25, 2022\n\n- Fix mc4wp_get_request_ip_address() to pass new Mailchimp validation format. This fixes the \"This value is not a valid IP.\" error some users using a proxy may have been seeing.\n\n\n#### 4.8.7 - Mar 2, 2022\n\n- Fix PHP 8.1 deprecation warnings in `MC4WP_Container` class.\n- Fix name of action hook that fires before Mailchimp settings rows are displayed on the settings page. Thanks [LoonSongSoftware](https://github.com/LoonSongSoftware).\n- Improve WPML compatibility. Thanks [Sumit Singh](https://github.com/5um17).\n- Fix deprecated function for AMP integration.\n- Only allow unfiltered HTML if user has `unfiltered_html` capability. Please read the below.\n\nDespite extensive testing, we may have missed some more obscure HTML elements or attributes from our whitelist.\nIf you notice that some of your form HTML is stripped after saving your form, please get in touch with our support team and provide the HTML you attempted to save.\n\n\n#### 4.8.6 - Jun 24, 2021\n\n- Add nonce field to button for dismissing notice asking for plugin review.\n- Add strings from config/ directory to POT file.\n- Add nonce check to AJAX endpoint for refreshing cached Mailchimp lists.\n- Add capability check to AJAX endpoint for retrieving list details.\n- Schedule event to refresh cached Mailchimp list upon plugin activation.\n\nThanks to the team over at [pluginvulnerabilities.com](https://www.pluginvulnerabilities.com/) for bringing some of these changes to our attention.\n\n\n#### 4.8.5 - Jun 1, 2021\n\nAdd nonce verification to all URL's using `_mc4wp_action` query parameter.\nThis fixes a CSRF vulnerability where a malicious website could trick a logged-in admin user in performing unwanted actions.\n\nA special thanks to Erwan from [WPScan](https://wpscan.com/) for bringing this issue to our attention.\n\n\n#### 4.8.4 - May 7, 2021\n\n- Add `defer` attribute to JS file, so page parsing isn't blocked at all.\n- Rewrite plugin CSS to optimize for selector performance and get rid of some duplication.\n\nAfter installing this update, make sure to also update any add-on plugins like [Mailchimp for WordPress Premium](https://www.mc4wp.com/premium-features/) and [Mailchimp Top Bar](https://wordpress.org/plugins/mailchimp-top-bar/).\n\n\n#### 4.8.3 - Jan 21, 2021\n\n- Fix fatal error on older PHP versions when submitting form without any subscriber tags set in the form settings.\n- Minor performance improvement in bootstrap method of the plugin.\n\n\n#### 4.8.2 - Jan 20, 2021\n\n- Allow short-circuiting `mc4wp_subscriber_data` filter by returning `null` or `false`.\n- Use a subdirectory for the default debug log file location, so that it's easier to protect using htaccess.\n- Improved reliability for fetching lists from mailchimp when lists have high stats.member_count property.\n\n\n#### 4.8.1 - Aug 25, 2020\n\n- Fix notice by explicitly setting `permission_callback` on registered REST route.\n- Minor internal code improvements.\n\n#### 4.8 - Jul 9, 2020\n\n- Plugin now requires PHP 5.3 or higher.\n- Prefix overlay classname to prevent styling collissions with other plugins.\n- Form sign-ups can now add tags to both new and existing subscribers.\n- Update JavaScript dependencies.\n- Register script early to work with Gutenberg preview.\n\n\n#### 4.7.8 - Jun 04, 2020\n\n- Add `MC4WP_API_V3::add_template` method.\n- Minor code hardening to ensure a default form is always set.\n- Update JS dependencies to their latest versions.\n- Fix icon for Gutenberg block.\n\n\n#### 4.7.7 - Apr 28, 2020\n\n- Update JS dependencies to their latest versions.\n- API client `add_list_member` method now has an additional parameter to skip merge field validation.\n- Simplify code for updating an existing form.\n\n\n#### 4.7.6 - Apr 9, 2020\n\n- Update JS dependencies to their latest versions.\n- Check if className is of type string, fixes a console warning when clicking inside a SVG element.\n- Minor improvements to the AMP implementation to address harmless validation warnings.\n\n\n#### 4.7.5 - Feb 10, 2020\n\n- Add AMP compatibility to sign-up forms, thanks to Claudiu Lodromanean. This uses the [official AMP plugin for WordPress](https://amp-wp.org).\n- Add settings key to WPML config so settings can easily by copied over to translated versions of a form.\n- Optimize size \u0026 performance of JavaScript code, resulting in a file that is 40% smaller.\n- Update CodeMirror to its latest version.\n- Escape all string translations.\n\n\n#### 4.7.4 - Dec 7, 2019\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- htaccess config for servers running Apache 2.4 or later.\n\n\n#### 4.7.3 - Dec 4, 2019\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Top Bar \u0026 User Sync add-on using API v2 since version 4.7.1.\n- Revert change in formatter for date fields, breaking all forms with date fields in them.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Add getter method for raw (unmodified) data on form class.\n\n\n#### 4.7.2 - Nov 27, 2019\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Invalid .htaccess file in case there already is one in the uploads directory.\n\n\n#### 4.7.1 - Nov 26, 2019\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Update MemberPress hook names. Thanks [Ian Heggaton](https://github.com/pixelated-au)!\n- Use WordPress.org translations instead of bundling translation files in plugin itself.\n- Write .htaccess to directory of debug log file, to prevent file access.\n- Add some convenient hooks for Checkout for WooCommerce.\n- Stop parsing shortcodes in text widgets as WordPress core does this since version 4.9.\n\n\n#### 4.7 - Nov 7, 2019\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Add role=alert to form notices.\n- Add setting to pre-check sign-up checkbox for Gravity Forms integrations.\n- Add new position for WooCommerce integration: directly after the billing_email field.\n- Fix PHP notices for submitting a form and saving a form as an administrator.\n- Add link to [Koko Analytics plugin](https://wordpress.org/plugins/koko-analytics/).\n\n\n#### 4.6.2 - Oct 24, 2019\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Address fields in forms would always be required (even if really optional).\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Add proper SVG admin menu icon.\n- Minor overall performance and memory usage improvements.\n\n\n#### 4.6.1 - Oct 7, 2019\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Fixed list cache usage for WPForms, Gravity Forms and Ninja Forms integrations.\n\n\n#### 4.6.0 - Oct 7, 2019\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Improved fetch and cache mechanism for retrieving Mailchimp account details, fetching data only when it is required.\n- Updated [Mithril](https://mithril.js.org/) and [CodeMirror](https://codemirror.net/) dependencies.\n- Decreased size of `forms.js` from 22KB to 9KB.\n- No longer requiring jQuery anywhere.\n- Increase API HTTP request timeout to 15 seconds.\n\nPlease note that installing this update requires you to also update any add-ons like [Mailchimp Top Bar](https://wordpress.org/plugins/mailchimp-top-bar/) and [Mailchimp for WordPress Premium](https://www.mc4wp.com/premium-features/) (if installed).\n\n\n#### 4.5.5 - Sep 12, 2019\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Google reCAPTCHA script was still loading even if no forms have it enabled.\n\n\n#### 4.5.4 - Sep 11, 2019\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Removed custom color from menu item for improved accessibility.\n- Take birthday field format into account when sending data to Mailchimp.\n- Print Google reCAPTCHA script in footer.\n\n**Changes**\n\n- Changed plugin name to MC4WP instead of Mailchimp for WordPress.\n\n\n#### 4.5.3 - July 23, 2019\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Temporarily switch status of pending subscribers to \"unsubscribe\" versus deleting susbcriber before re-subscribing.\n- Deprecation notice for Gravity Forms version 2.4 and higher.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Filter out empty tags when applying tags to new subscribers.\n- Show all not installed integrations.\n- Show notice when form doesn't have a Mailchimp list selected to subscribe people to.\n- Check function existence for compatibility with WordPress 4.7\n- Don't submit form when Google reCAPTCHA is enabled but errors.\n- Update third-party JavaScript dependencies.\n\n\n#### 4.5.2 - May 8, 2019\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Accept more truthy values in custom integration for improved compatibility with third-party forms.\n- Update JavaScript dependencies.\n- Load Google reCaptcha script in footer (if needed).\n\n\n#### 4.5.1 - April 8, 2019\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Add sign-up integration for [Give](https://wordpress.org/plugins/give/)\n- Add sign-up integration for [UltimateMember](https://wordpress.org/plugins/ultimate-member/)\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Write to debug log if Google reCAPTCHA secret key is incorrect.\n- Validate reCAPTCHA keys when savings form settings.\n- Allow setting an empty \"successfully subscribed\" message.\n\n\n#### 4.5.0 - March 27, 2019\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Built-in integration with Google reCAPTCHA to prevent bots from subscribing to your Mailchimp lists.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Minor improvements to the JavaScript that is loaded on admin pages.\n\n\n#### 4.4.0 - March 1, 2019\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- AffiliateWP integration subscribing the wrong user if affiliate ID differs from user ID.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Renamed \"MailChimp\" to \"Mailchimp\" to match Mailchimp's new branding.\n- More accurate handling of timeouts for accounts with many MailChimp lists.\n- UX improvements for integrations overview page.\n- Validate MailChimp API key format when it's entered.\n- Improved compatibility with Klarna Checkout in the WooCommerce checkout integration.\n- Bumped required PHP version to 5.3 (soft requirement for now).\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Added Gutenberg block for easily adding a form to a post or page.\n- Added subscriber tags setting to forms.\n\n\n#### 4.3.3 - December 31, 2018\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Update WPForms integration to properly detect if the WPForms plugin is activated.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Write API request parameters to the debug log in case of connection timeouts.\n- Update JavaScript dependencies.\n\n\n#### 4.3.2 - December 11, 2018\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Use of `readonly` function, which is only available in WordPress 4.9 or later.\n\n\n#### 4.3.1 - November 28, 2018\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Fatal error on PHP versions older than 5.5\n\n\n#### 4.3 - November 28, 2018\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Added `MC4WP_API_KEY` PHP constant which can be used to set your Mailchimp API key.\n- Add `mc4wp_mailchimp_list_limit` filter hook to modify the maximum number of Mailchimp lists to fetch. Defaults to 200.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Apply `mc4wp_integration_gravity-forms_options` filter hook on Gravity Forms integration options so the checkbox can be prechecked and the checkbox label text modified.\n- The `updated_subscriber` JS event is now fired forms not using AJAX as well (when applicable).\n\n\n#### 4.2.5 - Sep 11, 2018\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Only re-add subscriber to list if we want to re-trigger a double opt-in confirmation email.\n- Change Gravity Forms field name to \"Mailchimp for WordPress\"\n- Get rid of cached result of Mailchimp API connection.\n\n\n#### 4.2.4 - July 9, 2018\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Ensure type-safety on some global variables.\n- Stop showing trashed forms immediately.\n- Pre-check Mailchimp list when creating a new form if there is only 1 list.\n- Send `null` for unknown values in usage tracking data (only when opted-in).\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Add methods for accessing Mailchimp's e-commerce promo code endpoints to API class.\n\n\n#### 4.2.3 - June 11, 2018\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Don't wrap \"agree to terms\" input in hyperlink element.\n- Allow [ENTER] key again after field helper overlay is closed.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Fallback to meta-refresh if redirect fails because of \"headers already sent\" error.\n\n\n\n#### 4.2.2 - May 22, 2018\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Events Manager integration was not working with logged-in users.\n- Form preview URL should respect admin HTTP(S) scheme.\n- Removed use of PHP 5.4 function.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Add \"agree to terms\" checkbox to field helper.\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Add filter `mc4wp_http_request_args`.\n\n\n#### 4.2.1 - April 11, 2018\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Namespace usage warning when running PHP 5.2\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Remove obsolete `type` attribute from all `\u003cscript\u003e` tags printed by the plugin.\n- Improved tooltips on settings pages.\n- Do not pre-check integration checkboxes by default.\n- Add textual warnings to settings that may affect [GDPR compliance](https://www.mc4wp.com/kb/gdpr-compliance/).\n- Update translation files.\n\n#### 4.2 - March 5, 2018\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Live form preview while editing form.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Improved [conditional fields logic](https://www.mc4wp.com/kb/conditional-fields-elements/).\n- Debug log now includes request \u0026 response data.\n- [Form JavaScript events](https://www.mc4wp.com/kb/javascript-form-events/) are fired in an isolated thread now, to prevent errors in event callbacks from breaking form functionality.\n- Don't send empty field values to Mailchimp when updating subscribers.\n- Show interest grouping ID in list overview on settings page.\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Ninja Forms export checkbox would always state \"checked\" when form contained a Mailchimp sign-up checkbox.\n\n\n\n#### 4.1.15 - February 7, 2018\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Dropdown fields with special characters were not properly passed to Mailchimp.\n- Interest groups with an all-numeric ID were not properly passed to Mailchimp.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Various minor code optimizations\n- Do not redirect when showing \"already subscribed\" warning.\n- Improved scroll to form handling after a form is submitted without AJAX.\n\n\n#### 4.1.14 - January 8, 2018\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Validate method was incorrectly checking required array fields.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Wrap some missing strings in translate calls. Thanks [morlor](https://github.com/morloi).\n- Make it clear that redirecting after successful form submissions will not show the \"subscribed\" message.\n\n\n\n#### 4.1.13 - December 28, 2017\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Array to string conversion in default form messages.\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Allow marking Gravity Forms sign-up checkbox as a required field.\n\n\n#### 4.1.12 - December 11, 2017\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Ninja Forms double opt-in setting was incorrectly inversed.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Simplified form processing \u0026 notice logic.\n- Prevent 404 errors by proactively replacing lowercased `name=\"name\"` input attributes.\n- Updated JavaScript dependencies.\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Integration for AffiliateWP.\n\n\n#### 4.1.11 - November 2, 2017\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Filter out empty array values when overriding selected Mailchimp lists via `_mc4wp_lists`.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Updated JavaScript dependencies.\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Link to the [HTML Forms](https://www.htmlforms.io/) from the plugin settings pages.\n\n\n#### 4.1.10 - October 19, 2017\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Remove unused options from Ninja Forms integration.\n- Now logging all sign-ups from Ninja Forms integrations when using [Mailchimp for WordPress Premium](https://www.mc4wp.com/premium-features/).\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Added Gravity Forms integration. You can now integrate with Gravity Forms by adding the \"Mailchimp\" field to your forms.\n\n\n#### 4.1.9 - September 19, 2017\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Add `\u003clabel\u003e` element to sign-up checkbox for WCAG compatibility.\n- Custom integration now works with Enfold theme's contact form element.\n\n\n#### 4.1.7 \u0026 4.1.8 - September 8, 2017\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Properly escape the return value of `add_query_arg` when it is used in HTML attributes to prevent cross-site scripting. Thanks to [Karim Ouerghemmi of RIPS](https://www.ripstech.com/) for responsibly disclosing.\n- Now loading integrations after WPML so that String Translations work properly.\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Add sign-up integration for WPForms forms.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Updated internal JS dependencies.\n- Form tag `{data key=\"foo.bar\"}` now allows you to access nested array values.\n\n\n#### 4.1.6 - July 31, 2017\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Method on API class for retrieving campaign data.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Show Akamai reference number when an API request is blocked by Mailchimp's firewall.\n- Minor output buffering improvements in form previewer.\n\n\n#### 4.1.5 - June 27, 2017\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Failsafe against outputting sign-up checkbox twice in registration forms.\n- Properly close HTML anchor element in French translation files.\n- Fix BuddyPress sign-ups when using WordPress Multisite.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Fire action hook `mc4wp_form_updated_subscriber` whenever a form was used to update a subscriber in Mailchimp.\n- Increase browser timeout for AJAX request when fetching Mailchimp lists.\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Added campaign \u0026 template methods to API client class.\n\n\n\n#### 4.1.4 - June 15, 2017\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Some form specific JS events were not firing due to incorrect event names.\n- Registration form integration now works with WooCommerce registration form.\n- Notice that asks for a plugin review would re-appear after dismissing it.\n\n\n#### 4.1.3 - May 24, 2017\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Randomise time of cron event that renews Mailchimp lists.\n- Always try to show Mailchimp list info when API key is given.\n\n\n#### 4.1.2 - May 8, 2017\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Use earlier hook priority for Ninja Forms 3 integration so action is registered on time.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Improved Mailchimp list fetching \u0026 memory usage for accounts with many lists.\n- Show error message when fetching lists fails.\n- Updated plugin translations.\n\n#### 4.1.1 - April 11, 2017\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- WPML String Translation not working with the checkbox label for sign-up integrations.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Use updated order methods when using WooCommerce 3.0, thanks to Liam McArthur.\n- Updated JavaScript dependencies.\n\n\n#### 4.1.0 - March 14, 2017\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Updated all JavaScript dependencies in the plugin.\n- Failsafed filter hooks to prevent invalid variable types.\n- Explain that greyed out integrations means that specific plugin is not activated.\n- Conditional form elements now uses event delegation, so it works with forms in [Boxzilla pop-ups](https://boxzillaplugin.com/).\n- Updated language files.\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Added support for Ninja Forms 3.\n- Added `mc4wp_integration_show_checkbox` filter.\n\n\n#### 4.0.13 - February 8, 2017\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Ensure fields are HTML decoded before sending to Mailchimp.\n- Better OptimizePress compatibility.\n- Show all address-type fields as required when form contains 1 or more fields of the same address group.\n\n\n#### 4.0.12 - January 16, 2017\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Don't call `stripslashes` on POST data twice.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Plugin review notice is now dismissible over AJAX.\n- Improved formatting of birthday fields.\n- Updated Polish translations, thanks to Mateusz Lomber.\n- Updated German translations, thanks to Sven de Vries.\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Add `update_ecommerce_store_product` method to API class.\n- Throw form specific JavaScript events, like `15.subscribed` to hook into \"subscribed\" events for form with ID 15.\n\n\n#### 4.0.11 - December 9, 2016\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Unescaped request variable on integration settings page, allowing for authenticated XSS. Thanks to [dxwsecurity](https://security.dxw.com/) for responsibly disclosing.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Add `$args` parameter to `API::get_lists_activity` method. Relates to the [Mailchimp Activity](https://wordpress.org/plugins/mc4wp-activity/) plugin.\n\n\n#### 4.0.10 - December 6, 2016\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- You can now enable or disable debug logging from the \"Other\" settings page.\n- No longer using deprecated function in Contact Form 7, thanks to [stodorovic](https://github.com/stodorovic).\n- Improved UI for adding hidden interest groupings fields to a form.\n\n\n#### 4.0.9 - November 23, 2016\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Issue with escaped HTML when using form tags introduced by previous update.\n\n\n#### 4.0.8 - November 23, 2016\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Improved handling of large debug logs.\n- Improved error messages when writing exceptions to debug log.\n- Show notice when form is missing required Mailchimp fields.\n- Custom form integration now handles arrays with 1-level depth. Thanks to [Mardari Igor](https://github.com/GarryOne).\n- You can now use nested tags in your form code, eg `{data key=\"utm_source\" default=\"{current_path}\"}`\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Add `data-hide-if` attribute logic to forms. See [conditionally hide form fields](https://www.mc4wp.com/kb/conditional-fields-elements/). Thanks to [Kurt Zenisek](http://kurtzenisek.com/).\n- Add hooks for delayed BuddyPress sign-up. Thanks to [Christian Wach](https://profiles.wordpress.org/needle).\n\n\n#### 4.0.7 - October 25, 2016\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Obfuscate all email addresses in debug log. Thanks [Sauli Lepola](https://twitter.com/SJLfi).\n- Ask for confirmation before disabling double opt-in, which we do not recommend.\n- Allow vertical resizing of debug log.\n- Failsafe against including JavaScript file twice.\n- No longer wrapping CF7 checkbox in paragraph tags.\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Added `mc4wp_form_api_error` action hook for API errors encountered by forms.\n- Added `element_class` argument to `[mc4wp_form]` shortcode for adding CSS classes.\n\n\n#### 4.0.6 - October 10, 2016\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Issue with lists not showing when using W3 Total Cache with APCu object cache enabled.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- We're no longer stripping newlines from text fields.\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Added missing e-commerce related API methods to API class.\n\n\n#### 4.0.5 - September 29, 2016\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Allow checkbox option for the List Choice field (again).\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Fetch Mailchimp lists over AJAX, to speed up perceived performance (especially when your account has many lists).\n- Periodically fetch Mailchimp lists, so cache is always fresh.\n- Improved `\u003clabel\u003e` element accessibility for checkbox integrations.\n- Stop using double underscore prefix in function names, as these are reserved in PHP 7.\n- `{post}` and `{user}` shortcodes now accept a `default` parameter.\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Add [MemberPress](https://www.memberpress.com/) integration.\n- Add missing e-commerce related API methods for next week's [WooCommerce Mailchimp e-commerce integration](https://www.mc4wp.com/kb/what-is-ecommerce/) release.\n\n\n#### 4.0.4 - September 7, 2016\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Allow re-running previous migrations by visiting a certain admin URL.\n- Do not show checkboxes option for fields that only accept a single value.\n- Write field specific errors to debug log when Mailchimp denies a sign-up request.\n- Write to debug log when custom integrations can not find an EMAIL field.\n- Differentiate between connection \u0026 authorization errors when testing connection to Mailchimp.\n- Bump limit of number of Mailchimp lists to fetch from 100 to 500.\n\n\n#### 4.0.3 - August 24, 2016\n\n**Fixes**\n\n- Ninja Forms integration not working when using PayPal integration.\n\n**Improvements**\n\n- Show connection errors on Mailchimp settings page.\n\n**Additions**\n\n- Add pre-checked option to Ninja Forms integration.\n- ...\n\n== Upgrade Notice ==\r\n\r\n= 3.0.3 =\r\n\r\nMinor improvements and re-added support for Goodbye Captcha integration.\r\n","meta":{"last_version":"4.10.6"},"ip":"107.180.250.162","timestamp":"2025-09-09T15:51:51.755902+05:30","curl-command":"curl -X 'GET' -d '' -H 'Accept: */*' -H 'Accept-Language: en' -H 'User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Debian; Linux i686; rv:125.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/125.0' 'https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/mailchimp-for-wp/readme.txt'","matcher-status":true}
{"template":"http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/megamenu.yaml","template-url":"https://cloud.projectdiscovery.io/public/wordpress-megamenu","template-id":"wordpress-megamenu","template-path":"/Users/ayushi/nuclei-templates/http/technologies/wordpress/plugins/megamenu.yaml","info":{"name":"Max Mega Menu Detection","author":["ricardomaia"],"tags":["tech","wordpress","wp-plugin","top-200"],"reference":["https://wordpress.org/plugins/megamenu/"],"severity":"info","metadata":{"plugin_namespace":"megamenu","wpscan":"https://wpscan.com/plugin/megamenu"}},"matcher-name":"outdated_version","type":"http","host":"hypertrends.com","port":"443","scheme":"https","url":"https://hypertrends.com","matched-at":"https://hypertrends.com/wp-content/plugins/megamenu/readme.txt","extracted-results":["3.6.1"],"request":"GET /wp-content/plugins/megamenu/readme.txt HTTP/1.1\r\nHost: hypertrends.com\r\nUser-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux x86_64; rv:124.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/124.0\r\nAccept: */*\r\nAccept-Language: en\r\nAccept-Encoding: gzip\r\n\r\n","response":"HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r\nConnection: close\r\nTransfer-Encoding: chunked\r\nContent-Security-Policy: default-src * 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval' data: blob:;\r\nContent-Type: text/plain\r\nDate: Tue, 09 Sep 2025 10:21:51 GMT\r\nEtag: W/\"6891a5cb-c964\"\r\nLast-Modified: Tue, 05 Aug 2025 06:33:47 GMT\r\nReferrer-Policy: no-referrer-when-downgrade\r\nServer: nginx\r\nStrict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000;\r\nVary: Accept-Encoding\r\nX-Content-Type-Options: nosniff\r\nX-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN\r\nX-Rocket-Nginx-Serving-Static: MISS\r\nX-Xss-Protection: 1; mode=block\r\n\r\n=== Max Mega Menu ===\nContributors: megamenu\nTags: menu, responsive menu, mega menu, navigation, mobile menu\nRequires at least: 5.0\nTested up to: 6.8\nStable tag: 3.6.1\nRequires PHP: 5.6\nLicense: GPLv2 or later\nLicense URI: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html\n\nAn easy to use mega menu plugin. Written the WordPress way.\n\n== Description ==\n\nMax Mega Menu will automatically convert your existing menu into a mega menu. You can then add any WordPress widget to your menu, restyle your menu using the theme editor and change the menu behaviour using the built in settings. Max Mega Menu is a complete menu management plugin, perfect for taking control of your existing menu and turning it into a user-friendly, accessible and touch ready menu with just a few clicks.\n\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=44dJwP1AXT8\n\nDocumentation \u0026 Demo: [https://www.megamenu.com](https://www.megamenu.com)\n\n###Mobile\n\n* Automatic support for native touch events\n* Off Canvas Mobile Menu option built in\n* Specify your own Responsive Breakpoint\n* For items with sub menus, choose between \"First click opens sub menu, second click closes sub menu\" or \"First click opens sub menu, second click follows link\"\n* Option to hide sub menus on mobile\n* Mobile Toggle Bar designer allows you to tailor the toggle bar elements to fit in with your site design\n\n###Features\n\n* Builds upon the standard WordPress menus system\n* Restores the *Appearance \u003e Menus* screen in \"full site editing\" themes\n* Supports multiple menu locations each with their own configuration\n* Off canvas (slide in from left or right) or standard drop down mobile menu\n* Organise your sub menu content into rows and columns using the Grid Layout builder\n* Display WordPress Widgets in your menu\n* Fully customise the styling of your menus using the built in theme editor\n* Supports Flyout (traditional) or Mega Menu sub menu styles\n* Hover, Hover Intent or Click event to open sub menus\n* Fade, Fade Up, Slide Up or Slide sub menu transitions\n* Add icons to menu items\n* Menu item options including Hide Text, Disable Link, Hide on Mobile etc\n* Align menu items to the left or right of the menu bar\n* Align sub menus to left or right of parent menu item\n* Display your menu using Automatic Integration, Block, Widget or Shortcode.\n\n###Accessibility\n\n* Keyboard Navigation built in\n* `TAB` activates keyboard navigation and navigates through the menu\n* `ENTER` or `SPACE` on a sub menu arrow indicator shows/hides the sub menu\n* `ESC` closes all open sub menus\n\nMax Mega Menu is developed with a focus on code quality, performance and usability.\n\n* The only mega menu plugin with zero \"!important\", block or inline CSS styles\n* Menus are styled using a single, static CSS file\n* Less than 2kb JavaScript (when gzipped)\n* Responsive, touch \u0026 retina ready\n* Built with accessibility in mind - keyboard navigation supported\n* Extensively tested in all modern desktop and mobile browsers\n* Clean code with a low memory footprint\n* Supports all core nav_menu filters (prepend filter name with \"mega_\")\n* In depth documentation\n* Basic Support included with free version\n\n####Pro Features:\n\n\u003e * Tabbed Mega Menus\n\u003e * Sticky Menu\n\u003e * Vertical \u0026 Accordion Menus\n\u003e * FontAwesome, Genericon \u0026 Custom Icons\n\u003e * Custom Item Styling\n\u003e * Menu Logo\n\u003e * Search Box\n\u003e * WooCommerce \u0026 EDD support\n\u003e * Google Fonts\n\u003e * Roles \u0026 Restrictions\n\u003e * Mobile toggle blocks\n\u003e * Automatic updates\n\u003e * Priority Support\n\u003e\n\u003e Find out more: [https://www.megamenu.com/upgrade/](https://www.megamenu.com/upgrade/)\n\n== Frequently Asked Questions ==\n\n= Is it compatible with Elementor? =\nYes! See: [https://www.megamenu.com/documentation/elementor/](https://www.megamenu.com/documentation/elementor/)\n\n= Where do I start? =\n[https://www.megamenu.com/documentation/installation/](https://www.megamenu.com/documentation/installation/)\n\n= It’s not working at all =\n[https://www.megamenu.com/documentation/not-working-at-all/](https://www.megamenu.com/documentation/not-working-at-all/)\n\n= It works but somethings not right =\n[https://www.megamenu.com/documentation/it-works-but-somethings-not-right/](https://www.megamenu.com/documentation/it-works-but-somethings-not-right/)\n\n= The mobile menu is visible but nothing happens when I click it =\n[https://www.megamenu.com/documentation/the-mobile-menu-is-visible-but-nothing-happens-when-i-click-it/](https://www.megamenu.com/documentation/the-mobile-menu-is-visible-but-nothing-happens-when-i-click-it/)\n\n= The mobile menu is completely hidden =\n[https://www.megamenu.com/documentation/the-mobile-menu-is-completely-hidden/](https://www.megamenu.com/documentation/the-mobile-menu-is-completely-hidden/)\n\n= I see two mobile toggle buttons =\n[https://www.megamenu.com/documentation/i-see-two-mobile-toggle-buttons/](https://www.megamenu.com/documentation/i-see-two-mobile-toggle-buttons/)\n\n= A blank screen appears when I click the blue ‘Mega Menu’ button =\n[https://www.megamenu.com/documentation/blank-screen-when-clicking-blue-mega-menu/](https://www.megamenu.com/documentation/blank-screen-when-clicking-blue-mega-menu/)\n\n= Changes I make in the Theme Editor aren’t being applied to the menu =\n[https://www.megamenu.com/documentation/theme-editor-not-working/](https://www.megamenu.com/documentation/theme-editor-not-working/)\n\n== Installation ==\n\n1. Go to the Plugins Menu in WordPress\n1. Search for \"Max Mega Menu\"\n1. Click \"Install\"\n\nhttps://www.megamenu.com/documentation/installation/\n\n== Screenshots ==\n\nSee https://www.megamenu.com for more screenshots\n\n1. New menu changes\n2. Drag and Drop widget editor for each menu item\n3. Front end: Mega Menu\n4. Front end: Flyout Menu\n5. Back end: Use the theme editor to change the appearance of your menus\n\n== Changelog ==\n\n= 3.6.2 =\n\n* Accessibility Fix: Windows Narrator ignores \"Enter\" keypress, preventing tab navigation working reliably\n* Fix: CSS generation fails when outdated versions of MMM Pro are installed (\u003c= 2.3.1)\n* Fix: PHP notice\n* Change: Add css_type SCSS variable\n* Fix: Colorpicker z-index\n\n= 3.6.1 =\n\n* Fix: PHP Error when percentage sign used in HTML block in menu toggle bar\n\n= 3.6 =\n\n* New: Experimental 'Use Flex CSS' option added to theme editor for new installations of MMM (will become available to existing installations in future versions)\n* New: Color picker in theme editor updated to allow CSS variables to be entered\n* New: Allow 'wv' units to be used to define sub menu width (e.g. 100vw will make the sub menu full browser width)\n* Update: Reusable block widget renamed to Pattern widget (use this to show saved Block Patterns within your sub menus)\n* Fix: Double blue 'Mega Menu' button in Enfold theme\n* Fix: Mobile close button sometimes disappears (use options rather than transients to store CSS version and generation date)\n* Fix: Sub menu items in mega menus don't appear on mobile when flex styling is used\n* Fix: Do not apply collapse children class to tabbed menu items\n* Improvement: Use more reliable/cleaner method to add toggle bar html to menu output\n* Accessibility: Change standard menu toggle span to button, for NVDA screen readers\n\n= 3.5 =\n\n* New: Dedicated Elementor Widget\n* Accessibility Improvement: Add presentation role to grid layout containers to prevent NVDA from announcing them\n* Accessibility Improvement: Add aria-hidden attribute to arrow indicators\n* Accessibility Fix: Pressing Enter on standard mobile toggle button now opens/closes mobile sub menu\n* Improvement: Use style attributes on grid layout to define number of rows and columns, in preparation for using CSS Grid styling\n* Improvement: Refactor mobile CSS, remove usage of :has\n* Improvement: Refactor second and third level item styling so that it can be used within tab sub menus without being duplicated\n* Improvement: Refactor method for adding close button HTML to menu output\n* Improvement: Refactor JS: remove usage of data-has-click-event attribute\n* Fix: Fix styling of mobile menu as it transitions from open to closed\n* Fix: Error loading scss in some instances\n\n= 3.4.1 =\n\n* Fix: PHP 5.6 compatibility\n\n= 3.4 =\n\n* New: Allow off canvas menus to be 100% wide\n* New: Add option to Theme Editor to add a Close icon to off canvas mobile menus\n* Accessibility Fix: Remove 'aria-haspopup' attribute\n* Fix: Dynamic sub menu width calculation bug\n* Accessibility Improvement: Escape key now closes sub menus sequentially\n* Improvement: Small refactor of maxmegamenu.js\n* Improvement: Set default mobile menu type to Off Canvas\n\n= 3.3.2 =\n\n* Fix: CSS validation error (move @charset rule to first line)\n* Fix: jQuery migrate warnings (change unbind to off)\n* Accessibility Fix: On mobile, when pressing enter on the parent of a hidden submenu, follow the link\n* Fix: PHP warning when activating plugin for first time using PHP 8.2\n* Fix: When CSS Output has been set to 'Disabled', do not automatically set it back to 'Output in Head' if generation of the CSS file fails\n\n= 3.3.1 =\n\n* Accessibility Improvement: Ensure items within hidden off canvas menu cannot be focused using keyboard\n* Fix: 'Desktop' mode detection when using browser zoom\n* Fix: Conflict with Darklup Pro (and possibly other plugins which use scssphp library)\n* Fix: Always use 'direct' filesystem method to generate style.css file\n* Fix: jQuery migrate warnings\n* Security fix: Add nonce check to sandbox URL. Thanks to patchstack for reporting.\n\n= 3.3 =\n\n* Fix: PHP 8.2 compatibility (update scssphp library to v1.11.1)\n* Notes: If you have problems with CSS Compilation (menu appears unstyled) add the following to your wp-config.php file:\n`define('MEGAMENU_SCSS_COMPILER_COMPAT', true);`\n* Fix: Conflict with Salient when enabled on Multisite\n* Fix: Improve efficiency of key press detection\n* Accessibility Improvement: Using keyboard navigation on mobile, respect the 'Mobile sub menu behaviour' setting (do not auto close sub menus)\n* Accessibility Improvement: Fix issue with NVDA/screen readers not able to open sub menus using Enter key\n\n= 3.2.4 =\n\n* Change: Remove \"visibility: visible;\" rule from menu UL\n* Fix: Warning with Ninja Popups plugin\n* Accessibility improvement: Space bar can now be used to toggle visibility of mobile sub menu\n* Accessibility improvement: Up/down keys can be used to navigate top level menu items in mobile sub menu\n* Accessibility improvement: Add 'Keyboard Highlight Outline' styling option to theme editor\n* Accessibility improvement: Add outline to entire search form when using keyboard navigation\n* Fix: Using left/right arrow keys to navigate top level menu items when a search box is in the menu\n* Improvement: Remove 'display' inline CSS attribute when mobile menu is opened/closed\n\n= 3.2.3 =\n\n* Fix: Check the walker property exists before adding menu toggle to HTML output\n* Fix: PHP 8.1 warning\n* Fix: Conflict with The Bluehost Plugin\n\n= 3.2.2 =\n\n* Fix: Position of aria-expanded and aria-haspopup attributes\n* Fix: Do not use ':has' selector in CSS unless required\n\n= 3.2.1 =\n\n* Fix: Nested collapsed children CSS\n\n= 3.2 =\n\n* Revert: Remove tabindex from arrow indicator due to HTML validation errors, restore pre 3.1 tab/focus behaviour\n* New: Introduce experimental \"MEGAMENU_EXPERIMENTAL_MOVE_ARROW\" option to move arrow indicator HTML alongside the link element and allow separate keyboard focus (requires clearing the CSS Cache after enabling)\n* Fix: PHP 8.1 compatibility\n\n= 3.1.1 =\n\n* Fix: Pressing Enter on a menu item where the arrow indicator has been hidden should first show the sub menu, then follow the link.\n* Fix: Mobile menu slides down, but does not slide back up\n* Improvement: Make it possible to dequeue hoverIntent without causing JavaScript errors\n\n= 3.1 =\n\n* Accessibility improvement: sub menus no longer appear automatically when parent items are tabbed to. Each sub menu arrow indicator can now be tabbed to and activated (by pressing Enter) independently. Note: it is required to clear the CSS cache to enable correct focus highlighting of the arrow indicators when using keyboard navigation, see megamenu.com for a demonstration.\n* Accessibility improvement: add \"aria-current\" attribute to current menu items\n* Accessibility improvement: space bar key press on sub menu indicator now shows/hides sub menu\n* Accessibility improvement: add role='button' to sub menu indicator arrow\n* Accessibility improvement: add aria-label attribute to sub menu indicator arrow which identifies the sub menu that will be opened/closed when activated\n* Fix: Correct Requi



